The Project Gutenberg EBook of Clipped Wings, by Percy F. Westerman

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Clipped Wings

Author: Percy F. Westerman

Illustrator: E.S. Hodgson

Release Date: September 17, 2019 [EBook #60311]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CLIPPED WINGS ***




Produced by R.G.P.M. van Giesen




  CLIPPED WINGS




  BY
  PERCY F. WESTERMAN
    ----
  "No boy alive will be able to peruse Mr. Westerman's pages
  without a quickening of his pulses."--Outlook.
    ----
  A Cadet of the Mercantile Marine.
  Clipped Wings: Thrills in Three Elements.
  Sea Scouts up-Channel; or, The Cruise of the _Spindrift_.
  The Wireless Officer.
  The Third Officer: A Present-day Pirate Story.
  Sea Scouts Abroad: Further Adventures of the _Olivette_.
  The Salving of the "Fusi Yama": A Post-War
    Story of the Sea.
  Sea Scouts All: How the _Olivette_ was won.
  Winning his Wings: A Story of the R.A.F.
  The Thick of the Fray at Zeebrugge: April, 1918.
  With Beatty off Jutland: A Romance of the Great Sea
    Fight.
  The Submarine Hunters: A Story of Naval Patrol Work.
  A Lively Bit of the Front: A Tale of the New Zealand
    Rifles on the Western Front.
  A Sub and a Submarine: The Story of H.M. Submarine
    R19 in the Great War.
  Under the White Ensign: A Naval Story of the Great
    War.
  Rounding up the Raider: A Naval Story of the Great
    War.
  The Fight for Constantinople: A Tale of the Gallipoli
    Peninsula.
  A Lad of Grit: A Story of Restoration Times.
    ----
  LONDON: BLACKIE & SON, LTD., 50 OLD BAILEY, E.C.




  [Illustration: MAKING UP THE RIVER
                                    _Page_ 93]




  CLIPPED WINGS



  BY

  PERCY F. WESTERMAN

  Author of "The Wireless Officer"
  "Sea Scouts up-Channel," &c.



  _Illustrated by E. S. Hodgson_



  BLACKIE AND SON LIMITED
  LONDON GLASGOW AND BOMBAY




  _Printed and bound in Great Britain_




    Contents
    ----
    CHAP.                                Page
       I. PAID OFF . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
      II. A DAY OF SURPRISES . . . . . . . . . .  17
     III. UNCLE BRIAN. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
      IV. DON RAMON DIAZ . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
       V. THE MENACE . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
      VI. THE SUPER FLYING-BOAT. . . . . . . . .  48
     VII. PETER'S FIRST ASCENT . . . . . . . . .  54
    VIII. UNCLE BRIAN'S SECRET . . . . . . . . .  62
      IX. THE PROVING OF THE RAYS. . . . . . . .  69
       X. PLANS FOR ESCAPE . . . . . . . . . . .  79
      XI. UP THE RIO GUAYA . . . . . . . . . . .  87
     XII. "CAUGHT OUT" . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
    XIII. WRECKED. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
     XIV. A CHANGE OF LOCOMOTION . . . . . . . . 120
      XV. OVER THE SIERRAS . . . . . . . . . . . 131
     XVI. "CRASHED". . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 143
    XVII. THE PASSAGE PERILOUS . . . . . . . . . 152
   XVIII. ORDERS FOR CAVENDISH . . . . . . . . . 162
     XIX. THE DECOY SHIP . . . . . . . . . . . . 169
      XX. TWO AGAINST ONE. . . . . . . . . . . . 180
     XXI. A STERN CHASE. . . . . . . . . . . . . 191
    XXII. FLYING-BOATS _versus_ DESTROYERS . . . 200
   XXIII. AT THE ADMIRALTY . . . . . . . . . . . 212
    XXIV. WAR IN HOME WATERS . . . . . . . . . . 224
     XXV. SEAPLANE AND SUBMARINE . . . . . . . . 232
    XXVI. ORDERS TO PROCEED. . . . . . . . . . . 241
   XXVII. IN ACTION--FORE-TOP. . . . . . . . . . 250
  XXVIII. IN ACTION--'TWEEN DECKS. . . . . . . . 265
    XXIX. AFTER THE BATTLE . . . . . . . . . . . 279
     XXX. THE END OF THE RIOGUAYAN AIR FLEET . . 228
    XXXI. PETER GOES ASHORE. . . . . . . . . . . 299
   XXXII. "THE FENCE IMPREGNABLE". . . . . . . . 311




    Illustrations
    ----                                      Facing page
  MAKING UP THE RIVER . . . . . . . . . . ._Frontispiece_
  PETER MEETS SEÑOR DIAZ. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
  PETER TACKLES THE SENTRY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
  THE "PANIC PARTY" (missing from book) . . . . . . . 184
  "WEEDS! BEAR A HAND!" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272
  A BLAZE OF DAZZLING BEAMS . . . . . . . . . . . . . 296




CLIPPED WINGS



CHAPTER I

Paid Off


H.M.S. _Baffin_, light cruiser, of 9900 tons displacement, 30 knots
speed, and armed with seven 7.5-inch and twelve 3-inch guns, was
approaching Portsmouth. Already the Nab Tower bore broad on her port
beam. Ahead lay the low-lying Portsea Island, upon which Portsmouth
is built, backed by the grassy Portsdown Hills with their white
chalk-pits standing out clearly in the rays of the midday sun.

The _Baffin_ was a typical unit of the post-War fleet--long, lean,
with two funnels of unequal size; a tripod mast with a decidedly
ugly raking topmast, and an aftermast that, by reason of its
position, should be termed a mainmast, but, on account of its
stumpiness, could not reasonably be expected to be so termed. As if
to make amends for its insignificance, the after-mast flew a white
pennant, streaming yards and yards astern and terminating in a
gilded bladder that bobbed and curtsied in the frothy wake of the
swiftly-moving vessel.

That streamer--the paying-off pennant--indicated the cruiser's
immediate programme. She was on the eve of completing her two years'
commission.

To the lower-deck ratings that pennant meant home, and with it long
"leaf" and freedom from strict discipline, watch on and watch off,
divisions, subdivisions, "tricks", and other items of routine that
combine to make up Jack's working day and night afloat.

The town-bred bluejacket or stoker would probably make for his old
haunts and, with a seaman's typical philosophy, note the fact that
many of his former acquaintances were vainly looking for work. Then,
at the expiration of his "leaf", he would shoulder his bundle and
return to the depot, thankful that he would have to take no thought
for the morrow as to how he was to obtain his next meal.

Then, too, the seaman recruited from the country would make tracks
for his native village, there to spend the next few weeks
contemplating the dull-witted son of the soil--his companion of
boyhood days--plodding at the tail-end of a plough. Quite possibly
the labourer was being paid far more than he--the highly-trained
product of a mechanical age in which electricity and oil-fed turbine
engines have supplanted masts and yards. But, on the other hand, the
bluejacket will thank his lucky stars that fate--usually in the
guise of a naval recruiting officer--drew him from the unimaginative
land and set his course upon the boundless ocean. At all events his
outlook on life was not bordered by the hedges that surrounded the
fields which the boon companions of his youth tilled from one year's
end to another.

To the officers, "paying off" presented a somewhat different aspect.
Working, eating, drinking, and playing together for the space of two
years, inevitably thrown into each other's society owing to the
limits of the ward- and gun-rooms, they cannot but form deep
attachments for each other. Only those men who have served a
commission afloat can thoroughly realize the meaning of the term
"band of brothers".

And now, with the paying off of the ship, they would be scattered.
True, they were going home, but the fact remained that some would
"go on the beach" for the last time. Officers still in their prime
would have to be compulsorily retired to rot ashore, because a
conference in America has agreed that there is no longer any
necessity for Britannia to rule the waves. For similar reasons
junior officers, on the threshold of what had promised to be a long
and honourable career, were being politely invited to resign their
commissions, the invitation being backed by a hint that if they did
not they would be ultimately "fired" as being surplus to the revised
establishment.

Amongst the latter was Acting Sub-lieutenant Peter Corbold, a tall,
broad-shouldered youth of nineteen or twenty. The only son of a
country clergyman, Peter had been maintained at Dartmouth at a
sacrifice that had played havoc with his father's meagre stipend;
but, by dint of the strictest economy, the latter had seen his son
through the earlier stages of his naval career, until Peter was in a
measure self-supporting.

Studious by nature and conscientious in carrying out his duties,
Peter Corbold not only passed the successive examinations required
by the Admiralty during his midshipman days, but gained high praise
in his captain's reports. In due course, he obtained acting rank of
sub-lieutenant and was expecting to be confirmed as such when there
came a bombshell in the form of an official memorandum on the
reduction of _personnel_.

It was not a pleasing prospect. Its nearness became painfully
apparent as the _Baffin_ approached her home port. In other
circumstances, Peter might have looked ahead and fancied himself in
command of a destroyer, a light cruiser, or even a battleship,
gliding between those chequered circular forts that rise like
gigantic inverted buckets from the floor of the anchorage of
Spithead. Now that dream was shattered. There remained but the
prospect of "the beach", with a meagre gratuity as a sorry solace
for his compulsory abandonment of a naval career.

A deeply-laden Thames barge, beating up on a weather-going tide
against a stiff sou'westerly breeze, attracted his attention.
Sailing-craft of all sorts and sizes had a fascination for him, and
this bluff-browed craft, with her dull-red sprit-mainsail and
topsail straining in the wind, made a striking picture as the
foam-flecked waves swept completely over her battened-down hatches.
The only visible member of her crew was a tubby, blue-jerseyed man,
wearing a billycock hat, who stood with legs planted firmly apart at
the wheel, happy in the knowledge that the "brass-bound blighters"
on the cruiser would have to alter helm--not he.

"Hello, old son!" exclaimed a voice, as a hand descended heavily on
Peter's shoulder. "How would that job suit?... Hang it all, man;
sorry, I didn't mean that. I forgot."

The speaker was Sub-lieutenant Havelock de Vere Cavendish, a
high-spirited youth, who answered readily enough to such
affectionate names as "Weeds", "Tawny", "Straight-cut", "Woodbine",
or any other term that bore any resemblance to the various brands of
tobacco.

Cavendish was nearly twelve months senior to Peter Corbold. In
height he was a full two inches shorter, and lacked the breadth of
shoulder and massive limbs of his chum. Peter's features were dark,
and might be described as ruffled; Cavendish's were fair and
rounded. Peter was essentially a thinker; the other was a man of
action, with an impulsive temperament. In short, they had little or
nothing in common, as far as build, appearance, and characteristics
went, but they were close chums.

"Nothing to apologize for, old son," rejoined Peter. "There's no
such luck for me--even to the extent of becoming the master of a
barge. There's nothin' doin' afloat for a has-been naval bloke
nowadays. There are far too many Mercantile Marine fellows on the
beach looking for jobs as it is."

"That's a fact," admitted his chum soberly.

Cavendish was one of the lucky ones, although, with his
characteristic honesty, he could form no idea why his name should
have been "ear-marked" for retention in the Service. He had not
shone in his exams. More than once he had got into scrapes, harmless
enough, during his career at Dartmouth. Perhaps it was the fearless,
almost foolhardy feat he had performed in mid-Atlantic, when he took
the _Baffin's_ second cutter alongside a burning tanker--a
German--and rescued seven survivors from a raging inferno, that had
been a deciding factor in his retention.

Probably he alone of all the officers knew the precarious state of
Peter Corbold's finances and the gloomy outlook that confronted him.
So much he gathered by "putting two and two together". Peter was not
a fellow to moan and whine, but was inclined to reticence on the
matter.

"What are you going to do, old thing?" he demanded abruptly.

"Haven't any plans," replied Peter. "At least, nothing definite to
work upon. Probably I'll go abroad."

"Canada or Australia?"

Corbold shook his head.

"No; I've been thinking of going to Rioguay," he replied. "I've an
uncle out there. Mining engineer--nitrates, I believe, but I'm not
sure."

"Rioguay? Where's that?" inquired Cavendish. "Somewhere in South
America, isn't it?"

"Quite a flourishing little republic," declared Peter. "It has been
going steadily ahead ever since that little scrap with Brazil.
People are mostly of Spanish and Indian descent, of course, but
there's a fair sprinkling of pure Europeans, I've been told."

The shrill notes of a bugle interrupted Corbold's words. Instantly,
every officer and man upon the _Baffin's_ deck stiffened to
attention, the white-helmeted marine detachment drawn up aft
presenting arms with the regularity and precision of a well-oiled
machine.

The light cruiser had entered Portsmouth Harbour and was now abreast
the blackened ruins of what was once the semaphore tower. Ahead and
on the starboard bow appeared three tapering masts above a block of
yellow-bricked offices. At the mizzen-truck fluttered a white flag
with a St. George's Cross. Quickly the rest of the vessel came into
view--a comparatively small black-hulled ship with triple bands of
white--lying, not riding to the tide, but in a dry dock, in which
she is fated to remain as long as her planks and timbers hold
together.

A few seconds later and again the bugle blares out--this time to
"carry on". The _Baffin_, as does every vessel belonging to His
Majesty's navy that passes that way, has paid her homage to the
renowned _Victory_. Past the huge building slip--from which, until
the Washington Conference left it untenanted and derelict, a
ceaseless procession of noble battleships sped to make their first
acquaintance with the ocean--the _Baffin_ glided. Then, under port
helm, she turned her lean bows towards the gigantic lock through
which she must pass to gain her allotted berth. Ahead were warships
of every size and condition; battle-scarred capital ships that had
borne the brunt of Jutland, gigantic seaplane-carriers, battle
cruisers, light cruisers, P-boats, destroyers, and
submarines--forlorn, neglected, and condemned to the scrap-heap. No
longer did the once-busy dockyard resound to the ceaseless rattle of
pneumatic hammers as the "maties" toiled to contribute their not
inconsiderable share to the supremacy of the Empire.

"You mark my words, old son," exclaimed Cavendish, "some day we'll
be sorry we've scrapped these ships. We'll want them pretty badly.
People talk of air power being the predominant factor, and that the
battleship is a back number! It's sea power that counts, has counted
from the beginning of history, and will do so till the end."




CHAPTER II

A Day of Surprises


Three months later, Peter Corbold saw Rioguayan territory for the
first time. Acting upon a laconic cablegram from his uncle, Brian
Strong, he had taken a passage in a Royal Mail steamer as far as
Barbadoes, transferring at that point to one of the fleet of small
vessels plying between the West Indies and the numerous ports on the
Rio Guaya.

After a voyage lasting nearly a week, the steamer entered the wide
estuary of the Rio Guaya, which, for more than a hundred miles,
averages forty miles in width, and is tidal for a distance of nearly
four hundred and fifty miles. On the right bank is the Republic of
San Valodar; on the left that of San Benito. Rioguayan territory
does not begin until Sambrombon Island, where the river is divided
into two deep-water channels barely five miles in width.

Sambrombon Island made the position of the Republic of Rioguay
unique. It was in the territory of San Valodar, consequently San
Valodar claimed control of the Corda Channel on the north-east side,
and one-half of El Porto Channel on the south-west side, sharing the
jurisdiction of that waterway with the Republic of San Benito. Thus,
whatever shipping Rioguay possessed could not pass to the open sea
without entering the territorial waters of either San Benito or San
Valodar; but, by mutual arrangement among the three republics,
Rioguayan ships were allowed the right of using El Porto Channel,
without payment of dues.

This much Peter learnt from a fellow-countryman, the only British
subject on the ship, and Mackenzie by name.

"The Rioguayans are frightfully proud of this concession," continued
Mackenzie. "They are top-dog out here and pretty go-ahead, I can
assure you. Too go-ahead for my liking."

"How's that?" asked Peter.

His companion smiled enigmatically.

"You'll find out quick enough," he replied. "The country used to be
all right, but of recent years there's been a growing anti-British
feeling. Why, I don't know, but the fact remains. So much so, that
I'm selling out. I've taken up a piece of land at Barbuda, and I'm
returning to Rioguay only to arrange for the disposal of a small
mine that I've been working here. Where are you bound for?"

"El Toro; that's about five miles from Tepecicoa," announced Peter.
"An uncle of mine is an engineer there."

"Not Strong--Brian Strong--by any chance?"

"Yes," replied Peter. "Do you know him?"

"Do you?" asked Mackenzie.

"I was only five or six when I last saw him," said Peter.

"You'll find him a weird old bird, chock-a-block with comic notions
and strange gadgets," declared Mackenzie, with a burst of British
candour. "Not a bad sort, though," he added.

Just then Peter heard the distinctive drone of an aeroplane engine.
It was some time before even his trained eye could detect the
on-coming machine, but presently he could see the misty outlines of
a huge flying-boat travelling at high speed at a great altitude.
Even as he looked, the flying-boat shut off her engine and dived at
such a steep angle that it appeared to be out of control.

At less than two hundred feet above the water the headlong plunge
was arrested. The flying-boat seemed to hang irresolute, her
momentum neutralized by the action of gravity.

She was a craft of nearly a hundred feet in length, propelled by
four powerful engines. For her length, her wing-span was
ridiculously small, the planes, three _en échelon_ on either side,
being short and with a decided horizontal camber. The absence of
struts and tension wires gave Corbold the impression that the planes
were of steel.

This much he took in before the flying-boat restarted her motors and
was quickly lost to sight in the dazzling sunlight.

"Those chaps are pretty smart," commented Mackenzie. "It's only
since 1918 that they took up flying seriously, and for Dagoes
they've done wonders. But I wouldn't say too much about it to any
Rioguayan, if I were you; it isn't exactly healthy. There's San
Antonio just showing up. It's the port nearest to the Atlantic that
Rioguay possesses, and like a good many South American towns, it is
going ahead like steam. Keep your eyes open and don't say too much,
or we may both find ourselves in gaol."

Viewed from the broad estuary, San Antonio looked like a huge marble
town, standing out against the lofty, tree-clad hills that enclosed
it on three sides. But it was not the appearance of the place that
attracted Peter's attention so much as the shipping.

To his surprise, he saw three large battleships lying at moorings
off the town--leviathans that, in spite of the Rioguay ensign,
looked unmistakably British.

"Ay, two of them hailed from the Clyde and the third from Barrow,"
declared Mackenzie. "They were originally built for the Brazilian
and Chilian Governments, but for some reason those republics agreed
to sell them to Rioguay. I expect they had been studying the 'Is the
Capital Ship Doomed?' controversy and come to the conclusion that
they'd best sell while they had the chance."

"But what good are they to Rioguay?" asked Peter.

"Ask me another, my boy," rejoined his companion. "They gave out
that they were for maintaining friendly relations with the Republics
of San Benito and San Valodar; or, in other words, those battleships
are guarantees for a free passage between Rioguay and the open sea.
They're building others like them over there. A couple of thousand
skilled Japanese artisans were brought over eighteen months ago. I
did hear that they can turn out a fully equipped battleship for
three million dollars.... There's the submarine base."

Peter looked in the direction indicated. All he could detect was a
solitary submarine, bearing a strong resemblance to the late
unlamented _Unterseebooten_ that played such an important part in
the downfall of the German Empire.

"There are others," continued his mentor. "About twenty, I believe;
but where their base is actually, I don't know. It's somewhere about
here, but where exactly I've never been able to find out."

Slowing down, the little steamer entered one of the creeks
comprising San Antonio harbour. It was not the largest, but its
shores were occupied by at least half a dozen building slips on
which were craft in all stages of construction.

"For passenger and cargo traffic between Rioguay and the West Indies
and Brazil," explained Mackenzie. "A sort of national enterprise.
The capital was issued in five-dollar shares, giving each holder the
chance of winning a big prize. That sort of thing, anything of the
nature of a lottery, appeals to the Rioguayans. The required capital
was over-subscribed in less than a week."

As soon as the steamer berthed alongside the wharf, Mackenzie bade
Peter "au revoir" and went ashore together with half a dozen other
passengers, mostly Brazilians.

Five hours later Peter Corbold set foot on Rioguayan soil at the
busy little port of Tepecicoa, being in the awkward position of
knowing no word of Spanish and having no one to act as an
interpreter.

But that troubled him very little. His previous experience of
foreign ports stood him in good stead; while having previously
provided himself with a large-scale map of the district on which El
Toro, his uncle's abode, was plainly marked, he had no great
difficulty in finding himself upon the right road. He travelled
light, his baggage having been detained at the Custom House for
examination.

Peter had cabled out to his uncle from England, stating that he was
sailing in the Royal Mail steamer _Tagus_, but the date of his
arrival at El Toro was a matter for speculation. Nor was the
ex-naval officer aware that there was direct telephonic
communication between Tepecicoa and his destination, and that
electric cars passed within two hundred yards of the place.

It was undoubtedly a day of surprises. Peter had expected to find a
tenth-rate South American republic, peopled, for the most part, by
swarthy ruffians, with long knives conspicuously carried in
bright-coloured sashes. He had imagined the town of Tepecicoa to be
dirty, squalid, swarming with beggars. Instead, he found broad,
tree-planted streets and spacious _plazas_, lighted by electricity
and provided with broad, shady, and remarkably clean pavements.
There were Indians and half-castes in profusion, looking certainly
far from being poverty-stricken. In fact, he did not see a single
beggar. There were plenty of people on horseback, and quite a number
of motor-cars that obviously had been imported from the United
States.

Being afoot and dressed in clothes of English cut, Peter was the
object of a great deal of attention, especially as he was walking.
Almost everyone, even the poorest, rode either in a car or carriage,
or on horseback.

Presently, Peter arrived at a long and open space, out of which
seven broad thoroughfares radiated. Here he stood irresolute, unable
to decide as to which of these roads he should take.

"Wish I had Mackenzie with me," he soliloquized.

Suddenly a hand slapped him heavily upon the shoulder. Surprised,
Peter wheeled, to find a tall, lean-faced man, whose gold-filled
teeth proclaimed him to be a citizen of the United States.

"Say, stranger," exclaimed the man, "you'se the guy Boss Strong's
expectin'?"

"I am," admitted Peter.

"Sure thing," continued the other. "I'm right dead on it every time.
What are you hoofing it for? Didn't Old Man Strong send along his
automobile?"

"He didn't know when to expect me," replied Peter. "I suppose I
ought to have telegraphed."

"There's a cable-car at twenty centavos or an automobile at a
dollar," announced the man.

Peter expressed his preference for the latter.

"Come along right now, and I'll get you up," said his benefactor,
and grasping Peter by the arm, he led him to a kiosk-like structure
similar to those he had noticed at almost every street corner.

The rest was a simple matter. Young Corbold's companion said
something in Spanish to the polite uniformed person in charge of the
Kiosk. Peter put down a dollar and was given a ticket, which he was
informed he was to place in his hatband. An electrically-operated
syren on the roof of the Kiosk gave a clear but not aggressive note,
and almost before Peter could be escorted to the edge of the
pavement, a motor-car had arrived and was awaiting him.

The mulatto driver gave a glance at the words on the ticket in
Peter's hat. That was all that was necessary. That piece of
pasteboard was an order given by the Republic of Rioguay that, in
consideration of the sum of one dollar having been paid, the driver
of the state-licensed vehicle was to take his fare to El Toro by the
shortest possible route.

Without that ticket, Peter might have sought and sought in vain for
a conveyance.

He had expected, somewhat naturally, that his Yankee benefactor was
going to El Toro with him. But he was mistaken. The man raised his
hat and disappeared.

"Might have asked him his name, any old way," thought Peter.
"P'r'aps Uncle Brian will know who he is. My word! Rioguay is quite
a go-ahead show!"

It did not take the motor long to get clear of the town. Soon the
tree-lined streets gave place to a broad, dusty road that ran almost
in a straight line for miles between fields of maize and open
expanses of sun-baked grass, dotted here and there with _adobe_
huts. Nearer and nearer drew the rugged, saw-like mountains, until
Peter began to wonder whether El Toro lay on the far side of the
formidable sierras.

But at length the car turned abruptly to the right, plunging into a
defile through a far-flung spur of the main chain of mountains. For
the next mile nothing of the work of man's hands was visible, except
the well-kept road and the inevitable telephone wires supported by
substantial poles of ferro-concrete, until, swinging round a sharp
corner, the car emerged into more open country, and gave Peter his
first sight of El Toro.

Had Peter found his relative living in a shack, or even a timbered
house, he would not have been surprised, for according to what he
had previously heard, Brian Strong was not in affluent
circumstances.

Again the lad had a surprise. El Toro was quite a substantial affair
of white stone, standing amidst picturesque surroundings in
extensive grounds, surrounded by a high stone wall much after the
style of an English country seat. The house itself was neither high
nor impressive, being of only one story on account of the danger
from earthquakes; but it was well built and the grounds were in
splendid order. There was a lodge by the entrance gate, whence a
sweeping drive, bordered with dwarf palm trees, led up to the
porticoed house. At one side of the main building was a range of
stables, while farther away, and with their rounded roofs only just
visible over a slight ridge, were numerous sheds that looked as if
they might be workshops.

The motor drew up. Peter alighted and offered the driver a
half-dollar piece, which the mulatto refused with a superb gesture
worthy of a real Spanish grandee.

Before Peter had recovered from his rebuff, the double doors of the
house were flung open by a pair of negro servants. Even as he was
ascending the steps of the portico, Peter heard the clatter of heavy
boots upon the tiled floor of the hall.

The next instant, his hand was grasped by his Uncle Brian.

"Glad you've got here, Peter!" he exclaimed. "Say, ever been up in
an aeroplane? Ever flown at all?"

"No," replied his nephew, too taken aback with the unusual and
eccentric greeting to reply except in a monosyllable.

"That's a pity," rejoined Uncle Brian, "a great pity. I wanted a
chance to bring you down."




CHAPTER III

Uncle Brian


Brian Strong gave a deprecatory gesture.

"Explanations can wait," he replied. "You must be hungry. Dinner
will be ready in twenty minutes. Meanwhile, I'll show you the
bathroom. Where's your kit?"

Peter had to admit that he was hungry. The fact that he needed a
bath required no verbal confirmation. He was covered with dust. The
absence of his baggage was explained.

"If you had only let me know," commented Uncle Brian, "I'd have met
you at the landing-stage and saved a lot of bother. What did they
rush you for custom dues?"

His nephew told him, at the same time thinking ruefully that his
ready capital had already shrunk to three hundred dollars.

"H'm. I think I'd have got you passed through for less than that,"
commented Mr. Strong. "We'll go into the matter later."

Peter made his way to the bathroom, puzzling his brains over Uncle
Brian and his sayings.

He had not seen his uncle for about fifteen years, and impressions
at the age of five are apt to be somewhat distorted. Then he
remembered Uncle Brian as a tall, gruff-voiced man of great age. Now
his uncle looked quite small--hardly up to Peter's shoulder. His
voice was still gruff. He usually spoke in short, crisp sentences,
until he warmed up to any topic that interested him. His actual age
was forty-eight, but his fresh complexion and athletic build made
him look much younger.

A mining engineer by profession, Brian Strong had wandered far from
the beaten track in the critical years from 1914 onwards. He was in
Australia when war was declared, and promptly came home at his own
expense to offer his services to his country. They were
accepted--after a tedious delay--and his first war-job was that of
inspecting hay and straw, notwithstanding his frank assurance that
he knew little about hay and straw, beyond being able to distinguish
one from another. After twelve months or more of this totally
uncongenial and monotonous work, Strong found a slightly better post
in the Ministry of Munitions. Here his professional knowledge of
mining might have been utilized, but no! He was attached to a
section dealing with the extraction of explosives from wood pulp.
There was some consolation. He was helping to fight the Huns, albeit
still a square peg in a round hole. His last venture during the
Great War was more to his liking. He was appointed to the
experimental works of a Government aeroplane factory. Here he could
show initiative, and before long several of his ideas were embodied
in the latest types of bombing machines.

The War over, Brian Strong found himself out of a job. This, of
course, he expected; but for various reasons he decided not to
return to Australia, but to try his luck in South America. The old
roving spirit, rigorously controlled for four years, now reasserted
itself. Within ten months he had visited Brazil, Uruguay, the
Argentine, Chile, Peru, and Bolivia, and was on the point of making
his way to Mexico, when, quite on the spur of the moment, he decided
to take up a Government post in the Republic of Rioguay. On the face
of it, the appointment was that of consulting mining engineer to the
Republic, and was for one year. Already Brian Strong had held the
post for three years, but the nature of his duties had nothing to do
with mining, but with something entirely different.

That evening, Peter and his uncle dined alone. Usually there were
other members of the establishment present--Rioguayans assisting
Brian Strong in his work, and very frequently officials from the
capital. On this occasion there were no guests, and Brian had
dispensed with his usual table companions, since they spoke no
English and Peter knew nothing of the dialect of the country.

The meal passed off quite cheerfully, the chief topic of
conversation being family affairs. Uncle Brian made no further
reference to his bewildering question when Peter first arrived, and
his nephew did not seek enlightenment.

Judging by appearances, Brian Strong was in well-to-do
circumstances. He had quite a large house with extensive grounds.
There were plenty of menservants. The establishment was run on
well-ordered lines. To Peter, who had imagined his relative to be
roughing it, the display of luxury took him by surprise and in a way
damped his spirits. Somehow, he found himself convinced that there
was something mysterious behind it all, although he could not offer
any suggestion as to why it should be so.

When coffee was served and the two men lighted their cigarettes,
Uncle Brian's conversation took a different turn.

"You'll have to learn the language, Peter," he began abruptly.

"Of course," agreed his nephew. "I did think of investing in a
Spanish manual before I left England."

"It's as well you didn't," rejoined his uncle, with a grim smile.
"You'd have a lot to unlearn if you did. A Spaniard would hardly be
able to understand the Rioguayan dialect, although the bulk of the
white inhabitants are of Spanish descent. Indian words, which
largely make up the language, tend to render the Latin elements
unintelligible. But you'll be able to pick up a decent smattering in
three months.... I understand you gave up your commission in the
navy. Why?"

"Had to--reduction of _personnel_," replied Peter laconically. "Feel
as if I've been on the beach for centuries," he added feelingly.

"Keen on your work, of course?"

"Rather."

"What did you specialize in?"

"Gunnery."

"H'm," commented Uncle Brian, as if the announcement did not
interest him very much.

For nearly half a minute he lay back in a lounge-chair, regarding
his nephew through half-closed eyes.

"What's your opinion about the big-ship controversy?" he asked at
length. "Do you think that the battleship is a back number?"

"No, I do not," replied Peter, for this was a topic that always
aroused his professional enthusiasm. "It's the capital ship all the
time that will count. History proved that. In the 'eighties the
French thought that a horde of torpedo-boats would replace
battleships. Destroyers formed the antidote. In the last war the
Huns were going to wipe out the British capital ships with their
submarines--a sort of attrition process. Did they? They never sunk a
single dreadnought or super-dreadnought by means of a submarine
attack. The nearest they did was to torpedo the _Marlborough_ at
Jutland, and she got home under her own steam. Then there's the
aerial menace----"

"Ah!" ejaculated Uncle Brian.

"Wash out," declared Peter. "There's no instance of a warship being
destroyed in action by aerial attack."

"But that form of warfare has developed tremendously since the
Armistice," remarked his uncle.

"Under peace conditions," Peter reminded him. "Take the _Agamemnon_
tests. That vessel was directed by wireless. There was no crew on
board. The airmen could hover over the ship and drop their bombs
without hindrance. If her anti-aircraft guns had been manned the
conditions would have been very different. As a matter of fact, the
navy will find an effective safeguard against aerial attack----"

"Has it?" inquired Uncle Brian eagerly.

"No; but it will," Peter hastened to assure him. "And the big-gun
ship will still carry on."

"In limited numbers," corrected Uncle Brian. "In my opinion, this
reduction of armaments is, as far as the British Empire is
concerned, the greatest possible mistake. No doubt the League of
Nations is an admirable theory, but it won't--it can't work. The
only way to be at peace is to prepare for war--and to prepare for it
so thoroughly that a possible enemy won't have the ghost of a
chance. Just fancy! Only a few years before the war there was an
outcry against the voting of six millions a year for the increase of
the British navy. Six millions a year, and the daily bill, during
the war, was a little over that amount! Had we done so, the British
fleet would have been maintained at the Three Power standard.
Germany wouldn't have tried to wrest the trident from Britannia's
grasp, and Kaiser Bill would still be on his throne, amusing himself
with military manoeuvres with his army that would be utterly useless
for aggressive purposes against either France or Russia.


[Illustration: PETER MEETS SEÑOR DIAZ
                                  _Page_ 34]


And because we allowed the standard of naval superiority to be
dangerously reduced Germany took the risk. Result, four years of
desperate fighting, a million of British lives lost, and the Empire
victorious yet reduced to the verge of commercial ruin. "Mind you,
Peter, I'm not a pessimist," continued his uncle. "I'm only stating
facts. The onlooker sees the most of the game. Out here I can only
judge by what I hear from home--stories of unemployment, industrial
strife, class warfare, and all that. In due course we'll get over
that. The British Empire isn't done yet--not by a long chalk. Do you
know why I wrote and suggested that you should come out to Rioguay?"

Peter shook his head.

"You'll be very much surprised when I tell you, Peter," said Uncle
Brian. "It's this."

At that moment there was a knock on the door. A servant entered and
said something to his master.

"We'll have to defer explanations," remarked Brian Strong. "I've a
visitor--Don Ramon Diaz. He'll interest you, I'm sure."




CHAPTER IV

Don Ramon Diaz


Uncle and nephew rose to receive the belated caller.

Don Ramon Diaz was a tall, swarthy individual, with rather plump
features, loose lipped, and with a nose that bore a resemblance to a
parrot's beak. His dark hair was long and plastered down with
pomade. When he smiled, which was very frequently, the effort was
"like the grin of a sea-sick monkey", as Peter afterwards described
it.

He wore evening dress, with a broad crimson sash over his shoulder
and the Order of the Sun of Rioguay on his breast. His
tobacco-stained fingers were glittering with diamond rings.

"Here is my nephew, Peter Corbold, Señor Diaz," announced Brian.

Both men bowed--Ramon Diaz with the grace and dignity of an hidalgo
of Old Spain, Peter with as much display of cordiality as he could
muster.

"S'pose he's a natural product of the country," thought Peter.
"Dashed if I like the cut of his jib; but since he's my uncle's
friend, I must take him at his own valuation--not mine."

"So you have arrived in Rioguay, young man," exclaimed Don Ramon
Diaz, speaking in tolerable English.

"Yes, I blew in quite unexpectedly this evening," replied Peter,
unconsciously using a general naval term.

"Blew in, ah!" exclaimed Don Ramon. "You are an aviator then?"

"No," corrected Peter. "I was a naval officer. 'Blew in' means
'dropped in'."

"Dropped in what?" inquired Diaz.

Peter went into explanations.

The Rioguayan listened intently, and, pulling a notebook from his
pocket, made a note of the term Peter had used.

"I know most of the English slang words," he declared. "For seven
years I lived in London. I do not like it. What is your opinion of
Rioguay?"

"I haven't seen very much of it," said Peter. "It's rather too early
for me to give an opinion."

Don Ramon smiled superciliously.

"Your nephew, Mr. Strong, is more discreet than the majority of your
countrymen," he remarked. "I believe he is here to assist you in
your work?"

"I hope so," replied Uncle Brian. "Up to the present, we have had
little time to discuss matters."

For some moments there was an awkward pause. Apparently Don Ramon
wanted to ask a question, but hesitated to do so. Peter, having
taken a dislike to the man--although he refrained as much as
possible from showing it--was quite in the dark as to who and what
Don Ramon Diaz was, and whether his uncle regarded the Rioguayan
merely as an acquaintance, or a person with whom he had business
relations.

"Don Ramon is the Minister for Aviation in the Republic of Rioguay,"
explained Uncle Brian. "I suppose you didn't know that out here
there is a well-organized commercial air-service?"

"I saw a flying-boat when we were entering San Antonio harbour,"
replied Peter.

"It interested you, then," remarked Don Ramon.

"Naturally," agreed young Corbold.

By degrees, Diaz steered the conversation into a channel that Peter
wished particularly to avoid in present circumstances, and soon the
latter found himself engaged in a controversy about the respective
merits of the navies of the Great Powers.

Presently Peter heard the Rioguayan refer to the "German victory at
Jutland".

"I beg your pardon, Don Ramon," he said quietly, "but did you say
'German victory'?"

"Was it not so?" asked Diaz, with his irritating leer.

"Rather not," declared Peter, with some heat.

He fully expected his uncle to support him, but Uncle Brian gave no
sign.

"Listen: I tell you a fairy tale," began Diaz.

"You've told it already, Don Ramon."

"A fable, I mean," continued the Rioguayan. "A bull-dog and a fierce
cat lived in a farmyard. They were very great friends. On the other
side of the yard a hound-wolf--no, I mean a wolf-hound--lived in a
stone kennel. The wolf-hound did not love the bull-dog and the cat.
In fact, they quarrelled, but the wolf-hound was not strong enough
to fight the bull-dog. One day, the cat walked in front of the
wolf-dog's kennel, and the wolf-dog pounced on him. Oh yes, the cat
fought strongly, but the wolf-dog bit him hard. Then the cat called
for help to his friend the bull-dog. Up came the bull-dog and placed
himself between the wolf-hound and his kennel, before the wolf-hound
could break away from the cat. 'Now,' said the bull-dog, 'I've got
you.' Then the wolfhound was frightened, because the bull-dog had
got him in the open away from his kennel. But the bull-dog was in no
hurry. He sat down to scratch himself. As he did that the wolf-hound
slipped past the bull-dog and regained his kennel, having hurt the
cat far more than he had hurt himself. Therefore the wolf-hound won.
Do you see my point?"

Peter shook his head.

"You are very dense, young man," said Don Ramon reprovingly. "For
the bull-dog substitute your Admiral Jellicoe, the cat represents
Beatty, and the wolfhound von Scheer. Can you deny that the Germans
won?"

"Certainly," replied Peter. "A victory is decided by its results.
Did the Hun fleet come out again before the Armistice? Only once,
and then it never meant to fight. It tried to lure Beatty into a
nest of submarines. Failing in that, it promptly legged it back for
all it was worth. At Jutland, Don Ramon, the German fleet was beaten
and totally demoralized. Its surrender and internment at Scapa prove
that."

Don Ramon threw out his hands and shrugged his shoulders.

"Mr. Strong," he said, turning to Uncle Brian, "I cannot convince
this headstrong nephew of yours. But we will make good use of him,
will we not? I must now wish you good-night, gentlemen."

Brian Strong escorted his visitor to the _patio_ where his car was
waiting.

"Insufferable sweep," soliloquized Peter, when he found himself
alone. "Wonder what he was driving at when he said 'we will make
good use of him'? He isn't jonnick, that's a dead cert. And hanged
if I can fathom Uncle Brian's attitude towards him."

It was quite five minutes before Brian Strong rejoined his nephew.
Peter fancied that his face looked drawn and haggard.

Without a word, Brian closed the big French windows and drew thick
curtains over them and the door, which was rather remarkable,
considering the night was hot and sultry. Then he switched on an
electric fan, produced a tantalus and glasses and poured himself out
a stiff peg of whisky.

"Peter, my boy," he said at length, "do you know what I'm doing
here? Mining engineering? Not a bit of it. You said you saw a
flying-boat to-day. That was built from my designs in its entirety.
I am the chief constructor of the Rioguayan aviation service. But
I've got myself into a very nasty mess, Peter. That's why I sent for
you. I'm in the rottenest hole that a fellow could possibly find
himself. I'm relying on your help, Peter. If you fail me----!"




CHAPTER V

The Menace


Peter Corbold regarded his uncle with feelings of amazement and
pity. Up to the present, he had looked upon his relative as a man of
means, and, although somewhat erratic in his methods, of action.

He had been under the impression that he had come out to Rioguay to
get assistance from Uncle Brian. Now he found that Uncle Brian
required his help. That put things on a totally different footing.

Naturally, he concluded, Uncle Brian's difficulties were not of a
pecuniary nature, since he would not appeal to a nephew financially
"on the rocks" for aid. Brian Strong was not that sort. The fact
remained that he was, as he had confessed, in a hole and wanted to
confide in his stalwart nephew.

"What's the trouble, Uncle?" he inquired. "Has anyone been
threatening you out here? Are you in danger of your life?"

"I am," replied Brian Strong. "But that I consider a mere detail.
It's not my life that counts, Peter; it's my work. I've made a
terrible blunder--unconsciously, perhaps, but--well, I may as well
commence at the beginning."

"Fire away," exclaimed Peter encouragingly.

"My story starts with my arrival in Rioguay," began Uncle Brian.
"I'm lowering my voice purposely, Peter. Although no one in my
employ speaks English--at least, I think so--there are other
Rioguayans who do, and out here walls have longer ears than you and
I are accustomed to. Well, I hadn't been more than a week in the
place, when I discovered that Rioguay was a much more go-ahead
republic than any I had previously seen during my wanderings in
South America. There certainly seemed a jolly good opening in the
mining-engineering line, and on making inquiries I found that I had
to obtain a licence and register myself at the Department of the
Minister of the Interior. That presented little difficulty. I gave
all particulars of my career in accordance with the official
requirements, paid the necessary fees, and came on to Tepecicoa.

"About a week later, I had a visit from a Don José Cordova, who
introduced himself as the Minister of Transport. He was a long time
beating about the bush. You'll find, Peter, that that is a
characteristic of the Rioguayans. They'll use a hundred words to say
what an Englishman would in half a dozen. He was courteous--very. He
wanted me to take up an appointment under the Rioguayan Government,
to design and supervise the construction of aircraft for commercial
purposes. He mentioned the salary and stated that the estancia of El
Toro would be provided as official quarters. Then, after a while, he
asked whether I would embody the stabilizing device that I had
offered to the British Air Ministry in the new type of machine."

"The one the Air Ministry turned down?" asked Peter.

"Yes, unfortunately," was the reply. "I tried to find out how Don
José Cordova came to know about it, but he was as tight as an oyster
over that. However, I considered the proposition. It was a tempting
one. The British Government had had the chance of taking it up.
Cordova took pains to point out to me that the Rioguayan Government
would claim sole rights for the space of one year only. After that,
I would be at liberty to sell the patent rights to anyone who cared
to take the invention up. A week later, I accepted the appointment
and signed the agreement. I took possession of El Toro, engaged my
staff and a swarm of mechanics and labourers, and set to work. But
it was not long before I made the discovery that I was virtually a
prisoner and that my work was primarily intended as a menace to the
country of my birth and to which I still belong.

"For the last two and a half years, there has been a growing
anti-British feeling in Rioguay. The president, Jaime Samuda, is at
the head of it, although I have been unable to find out the exact
cause. Samuda is ambitious. There's no denying he's a strong man.
The fact that there hasn't been a revolution in Rioguay since he was
elected in 1917 proves that. At any rate, he's worked up a strong
feeling against the British."

"So Mackenzie gave me to understand," observed Peter.

"Mackenzie!" exclaimed Uncle Brian. "Is Mackenzie back? I understood
he'd cleared off for good. He was lucky enough to get out of the
country. He won't have such an easy task next time. When and where
did you meet him?"

Peter explained.

"He told me he was returning to Rioguay only to square up his
affairs," he added.

"I hope he'll be able to carry out his programme," remarked Uncle
Brian grimly. "It's easy enough to come into the country, but a
jolly hard job to get away from it, if they don't want to let you. I
can tell you this, Peter; there are a hundred chances to one against
your leaving Rioguay for the next twelve months."

"Sounds interesting," rejoined his nephew coolly. "So interesting,
that I might be tempted to try, just to see what happens. On the
other hand, I rather fancy I'd like to hang on and see a bit more of
this anti-British republic. After all's said and done, what's
sentiment without action? All their anti-British feeling can't
possibly do any harm to the British Empire. It's a case of a mouse
trying conclusions with a lion. Well, what is the reason for this
attitude?"

"I can't say. As you know, the Rioguayans sent a contingent to the
Western Front in 1917."

"Yes, and the Boche made a point of capturing every section of
trenches they held," added his nephew. "They couldn't put up a
fight; they simply bolted, leaving either the French or the British
to straighten out the line."

"That, I believe, is a fact," agreed Uncle Brian. "But, having taken
part in the Great War as an ally, Rioguay wanted a share in the
profits, so to speak. All she got was a couple of U-boats for
breaking up, four destroyers, and a small light cruiser. She wanted
far more, didn't get it, but got disgruntled instead. That may be
the cause of the present agitation, but I'm not sure. What's more
important is that the agitation has developed into a serious
menace."

"How?"

"Consider the natural position of Rioguay. She has access to the
sea, but a hostile fleet couldn't operate against her without
violating the territorial waters of the Republics of San Valodar and
San Benito. If any attempt were made to do so, those Republics would
appeal to the United States for protection under the Monroe
Doctrine. You know what that means. Rioguay has three or four modern
battleships, and plenty of trained seamen under Russian and German
naval officers. She has an understanding with two other South
American republics that in the event of hostilities, she may take
over their modern fleets _en bloc_. At San Antonio, at the present
moment, there are building twenty or thirty light
commerce-destroyers, under the guise of merchantmen."

"Saw 'em," corroborated Peter. "Thought they looked a bit fine in
the hull design for merchant hookers. Well, fire away, Uncle."

"Undoubtedly Rioguay's waiting her time to have a slap at England,"
continued Uncle Brian. "What with the drastic reduction of the
British navy and the ever-present difficulty over the Near Eastern
question and, perhaps, trouble in India and Egypt, it looks as if
that opportunity were imminent. Apparently, Rioguay's plan is to
harry British commerce in the South Atlantic, use her fleet to
tackle any flying squadron of British light cruisers, and to occupy
certain of the West Indian Islands and Guiana. If the British navy
put in an appearance in considerable force, they would certainly
drive the Rioguayan fleet off the sea, but could they do anything
against Rioguay itself? Then there is the Rioguayan air fleet to be
taken into consideration. That's where you and I come in, Peter."

"By Jove! I'd like to have the chance," exclaimed Peter. "But if we
are virtually prisoners, what can we do in the matter? Supposing you
struck--refused point-blank to do another stroke, could the
Rioguayans carry on building aircraft?"

"Unfortunately, yes," admitted Brian Strong. "As matters stand, they
have a numerous fleet of fast flying-boats, capable of operating in
a radius of two thousand miles. They can rise almost vertically in a
twenty miles an hour breeze and hover without the aid of
helicopters--never did think much of helicopters, Peter; that's
power wrongly applied and consequently wasteful. With four engines,
each of 850 horse-power, they are unsurpassed for speed by any other
aircraft in existence. Their all-steel planes and armour-plated hull
are practically invulnerable to shrapnel, and only a direct hit
could put them out of action. And their means of offence is highly
formidable: liquid-air torpedoes. They aren't my invention, thank
heaven. Now, you ask, what can we do? I'll tell you. Do you remember
that almost my first question to you on your arrival was, 'can you
fly?' or words to that effect."

"And you also said, 'That's a pity, because I wanted to bring you
down '," said Peter.

"You thought it a strange thing for me to say?"

"I thought it was a joke on your part, Uncle."

"It wasn't," declared Brian Strong. "I was in sober earnest. Having
perfected the Rioguayan air fleet, I now want to undo the results of
my handiwork. And I think I've solved the problem. I have
constructed a secret anti-aircraft device. The Rioguayan mechanics
think it is a searchlight apparatus, and I let them go on thinking.
Now, I want to put it to a practical test. Since I can't fly and be
on the ground at the same time, I had to look out for an assistant.
Obviously, a Rioguayan pilot wouldn't do. To-morrow I'll show you
the device, but what I want you to do is to learn to fly. It's
simple and quite safe with my design. You'll pick it up in a couple
of weeks. Then I want you to go up. I'll manipulate the ground
apparatus and see if I can compel you to make a forced landing.
There'll be little or no risk, as far as you are concerned. Are you
game?"




CHAPTER VI

The Super Flying-boat


Peter Corbold was usually a sound sleeper with an easy conscience,
but his first night ashore in Rioguay was a restless one. He had had
a tiring day, followed by the disturbing influence of finding
himself in utterly strange surroundings; while as a climax came
Uncle Brian's lengthy and amazing disclosures.

His bedroom was in the east wing of the building--a spacious
apartment, with stone walls and floor, the latter covered with
native rush-mats. In one corner was a porcelain bath with shower
attachment, in another a wardrobe, with the legs standing in shallow
bowls filled with kerosene--a necessary precaution against the
destructive insects of that region. The bed was of the folding cot
variety, its legs also standing in oil-filled saucers, while in
addition, it was fitted with a double mosquito curtain. The two
windows were jalousied, while on the outside were iron bars that
gave the spacious room a prison-like aspect.

There were electric bells, hot- and cold-water taps, and a
ventilating fan, indicating that El Toro was not behind the times as
far as the interior fittings went.

Peter lost no time in undressing and turning in. Having made sure
that no rest-destroying mosquito lurked within the gauzy network, he
switched out the light and closed his eyes.

But sleep he could not. He reviewed the conversation with his uncle.
Several things required explanation. What prevented Uncle Brian,
even if he remained in Rioguay, from communicating his discoveries
to the British Government? Why hadn't the Foreign Office got to know
of this seemingly obscure republic's preparations and the creation
of a formidable navy and a still more formidable air-fleet? Then,
again, what was Ramon Diaz's object in trying to ram down Peter's
throat his version of Jutland? These and a score of other questions
had for the present to remain unanswered.

Nor could he account for President Jaime Samuda's temerity in
contemplating a trial of strength with the British Empire, unless
the Rioguayans, taking the case of Ireland as a guide, had utterly
underrated the mental and physical fibre of the British nation.

The dawn of another day found Peter opened-eyed and restless on his
bed.

With the first blast of the syren summoning the employees of the El
Toro works to their labours, Peter rose, completed his toilet, and
strolled out of the house.

Somewhat to his surprise, he encountered his uncle looking brisk and
spruce, as if the strain of the previous evening's conversation had
had no effect upon him.

"Hello, Peter!" he exclaimed. "No need for you to turn out so early
on your first morning here. Slept well?"

His nephew had to admit that he had not.

"You can make up for that during the heat of the day," rejoined
Uncle Brian. "Here, we work from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m., knock off till
four in the afternoon, and then carry on till six. It's a short
working day compared with that at home, but I find that it's useless
to expect to keep these fellows at high pressure for more than six
hours a day. That they've jolly well got to do, or the Government
would have something to say. Well, now you're up and about, we may
as well make a tour of the works."

They made a tour of the rolling shop, the pressing shop, the
foundry, and other departments. Although in every case the plant was
up-to-date, there was nothing to cause Peter to show any surprise.
He had seen similar machines at Dartmouth Engineering College and at
the various Royal dockyards.

Presently they arrived at a large galvanized-iron building, enclosed
by a massive wall of earth.

"This is part of the oil-fuel distillery," announced Uncle Brian.
"Here we have stored about 50,000 gallons of kerosene, conveyed by
pipe-line from the wells at Tajeco, about fifty miles from here.
From this tank it passes into an apparatus in yonder building to
have the flash-point raised to something like 200° F."

"Then what good is it?" asked Peter.

"Better than before for aeroplane engine work," replied his uncle.
"All our motors are kerosene fired. We don't use petrol. And
kerosene with a high flash-point is practically non-inflammable."

"And consequently non-explosive," added Peter.

"Precisely. That's where safety comes in. Roughly, eighty per cent
of fatal accidents to flying men at one time were attributable to
fire. This kerosene we are using is an explosive only when under
high pressure. In the petrol tank it's safe; even in the carburetter
it is non-explosive; but directly it enters the cylinders and is
affected by the compression-stroke it is not only more volatile, but
far more powerful than the best aviation spirit."

"But I take it that the fuel in the 'bus is under pressure,"
remarked Peter, who was beginning to take a lively interest. "It
must be, in order to maintain an even feed to the motor."

"You're wrong there," replied his relative. "I'll explain that when
I show you a flying-boat ready for service."

An inspection of the assembling sheds where aircraft were in various
states of completion followed, Uncle Brian pointing out various
"gadgets" embodied in the design to render the machine practically
"fool-proof".

"Now, here's a flying-boat in an advanced stage," he said. "All that
is required to complete her is painting and varnishing. That's done
in another building. What do you think of this little fellow?"

The "little fellow" was actually one hundred and twenty feet in
length, with a wing-span of a little over sixty feet. With the
exception of the patent glass scuttles and screens it was
constructed entirely of metal.

"There you are," continued the inventor. "A child could fly it once
it has 'taken off'. The planes, you see, are on a horizontal axis,
and automatically arranged so that should the diving angle become
too acute they will adjust themselves and bring the 'bus into a
position of safety. The horizontal rudders, too, can either be
controlled by hand or set to act automatically. Thus a pilot can set
a course and the machine will just carry on, even to the extent of
allowing for 'drift' and unequal wind pressure. Get aboard, Peter; I
want to show you the motors."

His nephew swung himself up by the open entry-port and found himself
in the "cargo hold", or what would be in war-time the bombing
compartment. From here a door through an armoured bulkhead led to
the pilot's "office" immediately above the for'ard pair of engines.

"Now, Peter, here they are," announced Brian Strong. "See anything
remarkable about these contraptions?"

"Sleeveless valves," replied Peter.

"Good. Anything else?"

"Why, if that's the full tank, it's right over the engine,"
exclaimed Peter. "And quite a small one at that."

"If you'll look, you'll find that there are three tanks to each
engine," said his uncle, "and one larger one between each pair of
motors. They are gravity tanks fitted with automatic valves, so that
whatever position the boat assumes there's always one tank supplying
fuel to each motor. Now you see the system of not having the
kerosene under pressure until it enters the cylinders.
Carburetter--usual type; ignition--magneto."

Brian Strong took hold of his nephew's arm, and in a lower voice
continued:

"That's the heel of Achilles, my boy--the magneto. I've a little
gadget I'm perfecting that will knock all existing anti-aircraft
devices silly. It will make these flying-boats as harmless as a
non-bacteric fly--as a bee without its sting. There'll be no aerial
menace, Peter. The blighters who declare that the big battleship is
a back number will be utterly confounded. And as for Rioguay----!"

He broke off to give a cheerful chuckle.

"Let's get back and have breakfast," he said.




CHAPTER VII

Peter's First Ascent


"There is no knowing what tricks these Rioguayans will be up to,"
observed Uncle Brian, as they gained the open expanse between the
workshops and the house. "For instance, I should not be at all
surprised if I knew there was a secret dictaphone concealed in each
of my private rooms. They are undoubtedly bluffing me--or at least
they think they are--and I'm bluffing them in return. So I just
carry on, do the work I contracted to do in a thorough and
conscientious manner. What I do beyond that is my affair."

"I was thinking, Uncle----"

"Thinking what?"

"Can't you send in a report about what is going on here to the
British Government?"

"How?"

"By letter, or cablegram in code?"

"Not an atom of use, Peter. That letter I wrote asking you to join
me here was opened by the Rioguayan Government officials. Every
scrap of paper that leaves here through the post is carefully
examined. They wouldn't accept a code message. It would only serve
to increase their suspicions, and that I want to avoid as much as
possible. You and I, Peter, are marked men. If, for instance, you
went into Tepecicoa, you'd be shadowed from the moment you left till
the time you returned."

"You said I was to take up flying," persisted his nephew. "What's to
prevent me taking you up and making a dash for the West Indies or
the Southern States?"

"In the first place," objected Uncle Brian, "you won't be allowed up
alone. There will be always six or eight of the crew. They won't
prevent us from carrying out our proposed experiments, but they'd
very soon stick a knife between your ribs if you attempted to fly
across the frontier. In the second place, if you attempted to start
at night without a crew there's always a strong guard posted over
the hangars. No doubt we'll find a way out when the time comes, but
until then keep your eyes open and don't look too wise!"

"There's another point, Uncle."

"And that is----?"

"That greaser Ramon Diaz: what was his object in trying to prove
that Jutland was a Hun victory?"

"I think simply because he wanted to see how you'd take it. Out here
they think it is a great stunt to be able to rile an Englishman.
According to their ideas Great Britain is fast crumbling. They'll
never make a bigger mistake. Perhaps some of the newspapers are
responsible for that. The Rioguayans cannot understand our form of
government. To them it is an absurdity to appoint a Prime Minister
and then begin to howl him down. Out here there is no Opposition, or
if there is, it does not advertise. People in Rioguay who
ostentatiously differ from the President and the Senate are forcibly
and finally removed."

"Well, Uncle, I thought Diaz was a pal of yours, and naturally I
didn't want to start scrapping with him in your house, but I should
have liked to give him a straight left."

"It's as well you didn't," remarked Brian Strong drily, "although I
quite sympathize with you in your desire to alter the features of
Ramon's figurehead. Keeping your temper under control puzzles these
Rioguayans far more than if you had hit out. You'll have plenty of
provocation, Peter, especially later on when they think I've guessed
the secret of the flying-boat's true colours. Our policy just at
present is to carry on, eat humble-pie if needs be, and to prepare a
line of retreat as soon as my anti-aircraft device is tested and
perfected."

Breakfast over, Brian suggested to his nephew that he should take a
stroll round the flying ground until _siesta_.

"I'll have to be fairly busy," he added. "But this evening we'll
have a 'private view' of this little invention of mine."

Accordingly, Peter made his way to the "taking-off ground", which
consisted of a sloping floor of wood, bordered on one side by a belt
of sand and on the other by a track of earth covered with coarse
grass--the three differently constructed in order to give the pilots
experience in rising from various kinds of ground. At the end of the
expansive slipway was a lake nearly a mile in length, artificially
constructed in order to give the flying-boats practice in taking off
from and alighting on water before being dispatched to their tidal
river base at San Antonio.

There were at least half a dozen craft undergoing flying tests, or
else being employed as instruction machines for budding aviators.
The pilots were young men, alert and keen on their work. Peter had
to admit that. There was little or nothing of the supposed South
American languor about _them_.

Peter Corbold's arrival on the flying ground had attracted a certain
amount of attention, the airmen looking at him curiously and passing
remarks that, owing to his ignorance of the language, left him quite
"at sea". Every Rioguayan on the works and on the estate of El Toro
seemed to know who he was.

For some while he stood watching the huge amphibians "take off".
This they did after only a very short run down the inclined plane,
rising steeply in the air with very little effort. The training at
El Toro was confined to rising and alighting both on land and water,
and being able to fly a straight course. Fancy flights and stunts
were left severely alone until the flying-boats left for their
war-base.

Presently, one of the pilots standing by came up and made signs to
Peter that he might go as a passenger. Although he had come out
without any intention of "going up", Peter accepted the offer with
alacrity.

"The blighter would think I had cold feet if I refused," he
soliloquized, as he followed the pilot into the interior of the
flying-boat, where he found five other Rioguayans already
there--lads undergoing instruction. The two mechanics--one for each
pair of motors--were not visible, their "stations" being in the
alleyway between the engines and below the space ostensibly to be
used for the storage of merchandise.

It was Peter's first time of "going up", and he had to confess that
he did not find the experience very exhilarating. The enclosed
fuselage practically eliminated all sensation of speed, and once the
initial movement was over--somewhat like the starting of a
lift--there was little beyond the noise of the motors to convey the
suggestion of speed.

Going to one of the side scuttles, Peter looked earthwards. By this
time the flying-boat had attained an altitude of between 2500 and
3000 feet. At that height the land looked flat and uninteresting as
it apparently moved slowly below the ninety miles an hour aircraft.
It was only by observing the shadow of the flying-boat upon the
sun-dried plain that Peter could realize that he was being carried
through the air at a rate that he had never previously attained.

Looking through the glass door between the main saloon and the
pilot's office, Peter saw that the man had abandoned the joy-stick
and was leaning back in his seat and rolling a cigarette.

"He's bored stiff," was the young Englishman's unspoken remark.

The pilots under instruction had also lost interest, but owing to a
very different reason. It was their first flight, and already every
one of them was in the throes of air-sickness.

It was evidently the intention of their instructor to prolong their
agony, for the flying-boat was still climbing steadily and heading
for the Sierra Colima, a range of jagged mountains forming the
north-eastern frontier of the republic.

Here, there is to be found a perpetual turmoil of air currents, the
torrid atmosphere of the plains rising on either side of the
mountains and engaging in conflict with the cold blasts of air in
the higher regions. Not only were there fierce, eddying winds to be
met with, but highly dangerous air-pockets--veritable pitfalls
taxing to the uttermost the resources of the pilot.

For a good twenty minutes the flying-boat tore madly over the tops
of the jagged peaks. Lurching, side-slipping, flung almost
vertically through a distance of two hundred feet, twisted like a
withered leaf in an autumn gale, the machine provided a series of
thrills to the now far from bored Peter. Gripping a metal rod, he
divided his attention between the view below, the cool daring of the
pilot, and his own efforts to prevent himself being hurled violently
against the sides of the fuselage.

"That chap is some airman, although he's a Dago," declared Peter.
"Those other fellows look like having a very rough time of it."

They were. The five were lying utterly helpless upon the floor,
sliding in a confused mass every time the machine gave a violent
lurch.

Greatly to his surprise, Peter felt no sign of air-sickness. Why he
was immune he knew not. It was possibly owing to the fact that he
was a sailor, but he remembered instances of his late brother
officers going up for joy-rides and quickly falling victims to
air-sickness.

"If I could manage this 'bus," he soliloquized, "and I wanted to
clear out of the country, who's there to prevent me? Deal
effectively with the pilot and the trick's done. But there's no
hurry; there'll be plenty of excitement down there before the time
comes to do a bunk with Uncle Brian."

Half an hour later, the flying-boat swooped down towards the landing
ground. This was a far more exciting bit of work than the
comparatively tame ascent.

The ground appeared to leap upwards to meet the descending machine.
Peter held his breath, fully expecting a terrific bump. The thought
flashed through his mind that perhaps the pilot had lost control.

Peter watched the custodian of his fate. The pilot was sitting well
back in his seat, his right hand grasping the lever controlling the
planes. With a slow deliberate movement, he pulled the lever towards
him. The flying-boat's speed was instantly checked. Her fore-and-aft
axis came to a horizontal position. Then the bows appeared to rise
ever so slightly, while at the same moment the four propellers
ceased revolving.

There was a bump, but it was far less violent than Peter had
expected. Another and yet another of less magnitude and the
flying-boat was at rest once more on _terra firma_.

The pilot scrambled out, followed by the two mechanics. Peter
dropped lightly to earth, with a sensation of elation at having
successfully passed through the ordeal of his first flight.

He was half-way to the house when he glanced back to see the first
of the five miserable looking "quirks" crawling painfully out of the
fuselage.

"So you've been up," observed Uncle Brian. "How did you like it?"

"Not so dusty," replied Peter. "Those poor blighters under
instruction didn't seem to revel in it, though."

"They wouldn't," rejoined Uncle Brian. "That flying-boat is of an
old type, and is used only for instructional purposes. She's known
to the instructors here as _El Boyeta_--the Emetic. So you weren't
ill? Capital; you'll make a good airman, I can see."

"And the sooner the better," added his nephew.




CHAPTER VIII

Uncle Brian's Secret


Brian Strong did not carry out his promise to show Peter his
anti-aircraft invention that evening. Nor did he for several days.
Circumstances prevented it. There was a steady stream of
callers--Rioguayan officials to discuss matters concerning the
development of the Mercantile Air Service. They were delightfully
polite, because they had not the slightest suspicion that Brian
Strong knew they were trying to bluff him, and the Englishman was
equally cautious to convey the impression that he was working merely
for the industrial good of the republic.

All things considered, Peter was enjoying himself. He entered
whole-heartedly into his part of the contract: to aid his relative
to the utmost to circumvent the Rioguayan authorities in the scheme
to twist the British lion's tail. In his spare time he devoted
himself to learning the language of the country, his instructor
being a Rioguayan employee who had lived in New York for nearly
twenty years. Much of his time was spent in the engineering shops,
while opportunities were given him to take practical instruction in
managing the controls of a planeless flying-boat, in which all
would-be pilots had to qualify before entering into the actual
conditions of flight.

Thus a week went by and still the building that held Uncle Brian's
secret device remained a sealed book to him. In fact, Brian Strong
was so busy with work that demanded the almost constant presence of
Don Ramon Diaz and his colleagues, that he himself had to steer
clear of the experimental room.

"And how progresses the new type of searchlight, Señor Strong?"
inquired Don Ramon. "I should like to see what you are doing in that
direction."

"It is not progressing to the extent I should like," was the reply.
"In fact, there are one or two important details that have
completely baffled me. Of course, if you would like to see how far
I've got with the design----"

"No, no," said Don Ramon. "It is not really necessary. When you have
overcome the difficulties, then it will be a different matter."

"Quite so," agreed Uncle Brian with well-feigned disinterestedness.
"After all, there's nothing much to be seen. If and when the
apparatus is perfected--when I've tested it thoroughly and am
satisfied that it fulfils all that is required of it--then, no
doubt, you will be willing to negotiate for the exclusive rights say
for one year."

This conversation had the desired result. It put Don Ramon off the
scent. He was not keenly interested in an improved searchlight.
Those the republic already possessed were of a particularly powerful
type and sufficient for defence purposes. He begrudged the time the
Englishman spent in the work, but, he reasoned, a refusal on the
part of the Rioguayan authorities to allow Brian Strong to
experiment in that line might probably result in the foreigner
"cutting up rough" and refusing to proceed with his aerial work.
That, for the present, would never do. Until the El Toro works could
be run independently--without the aid and supervision of Brian
Strong--it was policy to humour the unsuspecting Englishman.

One evening at dinner, Uncle Brian suddenly inquired of his nephew:

"Are you under any obligation to the Admiralty, Peter? Have they any
call upon you?"

"I signed a paper stating my willingness to serve in the event of
hostilities," replied Peter. "I fancy we all did--those who were
pushed out under the so-called economy stunt."

"Humph!" ejaculated Uncle Brian. "It seems to me that signing the
document is unnecessary. If it came to a scrap, or even the
suggestion of a scrap, you young fellows would clamour to be in
it--and the older men too. I remember after the Boer War there were
hundreds of men 'fed up' with their treatment at the hands of the
War Office. They had good cause for complaint, too. 'Wait till the
next war,' they said, 'and we'll take precious good care to be out
of it.' But did they? The majority were amongst the first to
volunteer. That's the Briton all over. He'll grouse, but if danger
threatens from without, he'll be there! And the greater the danger
the greater the enthusiasm to meet it.... Peter, my boy, you'll be
more useful to your country out here than at home--or even in the
navy. Come along; let's take a stroll as far as my experimental
shed."

Nothing loth, Peter fell in with the suggestion. He was curious to
know the secret that the experimental shed held. His uncle had
hinted at something very mysterious, but beyond that he was dumb.

It was moonlight. Away down the valley came sounds of revelry from
the employees' quarters--men singing to the accompaniment of
guitars. The works and aviation sheds appeared deserted, but Peter
knew by this time that each place was strictly guarded. And during
the walk he fancied he heard movements behind the cacti that
bordered the road.

Brian Strong's private experimental shed stood well apart from the
rest of the works. It was by no means a large or a pretentious
building, measuring forty feet by twenty and constructed of
corrugated iron.

Although Uncle Brian was perfectly aware that the Rioguayan
authorities could inspect the building at any time, his careless
assurances, coupled with the warning that any interference might
destroy the fruit of months of research, had resulted in a state of
immunity. He was allowed to carry on undisturbed.

But on the other hand, he guarded himself against a possible visit
from his State employers. There were drawings in the office, but
they referred to commonplace machinery and appliances. Of his
invention, his _magnum opus_, no plans were in existence, save those
that lived in his brain. He took extreme caution lest the future
enemies of his country should score on that point.

Producing a bunch of keys, Uncle Brian unlocked the comparatively
frail door and switched on a light. Peter was about to cross the
threshold when his uncle stopped him.

"Half a minute," exclaimed Uncle Brian. "Wait till I've put little
Timothy to bed."

His nephew looked in astonishment. Right in the middle of the
concrete floor was a coiled-up snake. Hearing footsteps, the reptile
raised its head, revealing a pair of deep-set eyes that glittered in
the artificial light.

Without hesitation, Uncle Brian grasped the snake at a point about
four inches behind the head. The reptile immediately coiled itself
round his arm.

"Timothy is quite harmless," explained Uncle Brian. "I got him from
an old Indian up-country. I need hardly say the poison sac has been
removed. He makes an excellent guard."

"So I should imagine," remarked Peter. "Dashed if I could handle the
brute, poisonous or otherwise."

The snake was placed in a box. Uncle Brian poured out some milk from
a bottle, placed the saucer beside the reptile, and closed the lid.

"Now we can get to work," he said briskly.

Peter glanced around him. There was little or nothing to suggest
anything mysterious about the place. On one side of the building was
a long bench, absolutely littered with tools, scraps of metal, old
bottles, and other debris, together with a lathe and an engineer's
vice. Underneath the bench was a similar assortment of rubbish.

"Bit of a lash up, eh?" commented Uncle Brian. "'Fraid I am a bit
untidy, but I can generally clear a space when I want to get to
work. Bear a hand and shift some of this stuff."

He pointed to a confused heap at one end of the bench. When the pile
of stuff was removed there stood revealed a small contraption that
looked as if it were a box camera with an acetylene motor-lamp
attached.

"There's my patent searchlight," he announced, with boyish
enthusiasm. "Don Ramon Diaz and all his precious pals can fool about
with that to their hearts' content. They won't be a penny the wiser.
Look at it. See if you can make anything of it."

Peter did as he was requested.

"Can't make head or tail of it, Uncle," he confessed frankly.

Uncle Brian proceeded to connect up a couple of terminals with a
wall switch.

"Now then," he resumed, "out with the light." The next instant the
place was in total darkness, the painted glass windows effectually
shutting out the brilliant moonlight.

There was a slight _click_. Peter, looking in the direction where he
imagined the apparatus was, could discern nothing, but on the
opposite wall was a small circular patch of greenish-hued light.

"Seen anything like that before?" inquired his Uncle.

"Rather," replied Peter. "Anti-aircraft searchlights during the war.
Couldn't see the beam in its passage through air; when it hit a
solid substance it lit it up."

"This is somewhat similar, but very different," said Uncle Brian.
"Sounds a rummy thing to say, but there you are. I'll demonstrate.
On with the light, Peter."

Again the room was flooded with electric light. Uncle Brian pointed
to a four-cylindered motor standing in one corner.

"Get to work on that," he continued. "Turn the engine over as fast
as you can and see that the plugs are firing. They are already loose
in the cylinders. You may as well remove the magneto dust-cap while
you are about it."

Peter did as requested, placing the plugs on the tops of the
cylinders, so that he could observe the sparks jumping the gaps
between the points and the central rods. There was no mistaking the
efficient state of that magneto. It was giving a miniature Brocks'
firework display.

"Now!" exclaimed Uncle Brian.

His nephew continued to turn the geared starting-handle for another
dozen revolutions.

Then he stood up and wiped the perspiration from his face.

"By Jove!" he almost shouted. "It's it--absolutely _it_!"




CHAPTER IX

The Proving of the Rays


"I hope so," rejoined Uncle Brian. "Of course, the distance is a
mere nothing, but there is no reason why the gadget shouldn't work
up to say 20,000 yards."

"It's scuppered that magneto, any old way," declared Peter. "However
did you manage it by a ray of light?"

"I didn't," his uncle hastened to explain. "It's not light; it's
electro-magnetism. I argued upon these lines. It's possible to send
a wireless message through thousands of miles. Cannot a charge of
electricity of infinitely greater strength be released through a
relatively shorter distance and at the same time be confined to a
definite path instead of radiating? For example: suppose Nauen
wishes to communicate with, say, Moscow. Provided the receiving
instrument is properly attuned, Barcelona, Clifden, and possibly New
York can pick up the message. It's similar to throwing a stone in
the middle of a circular pool. The ripples will eventually reach the
side practically simultaneously at every point. Now, my idea was to
concentrate high potential electric current and confine it to a
straight and narrow path with the object of polarizing any magneto
in its way."

"And you've done it," declared Peter. "An aircraft wouldn't stand an
earthly--I mean an aerial chance. It's bound to come down."

"That's what I'm aiming for," said Uncle Brian. "If this apparatus
can be perfected and conveyed to England, then the greatest weapon
Rioguay possesses--one that I have forged, although at the time
ignorant of the fact--will be broken. Not only that; the aerial
menace with which the anti-battleship experts support their
theories--poison gas and incendiary bombs raining from the blue
sky--will be simply eliminated. Wars of the future--and I am
convinced that while the world exists wars are simply bound to take
place--will be conducted on more or less straight lines, without
involving a holocaust of the helpless non-combatant inhabitants of
the belligerent countries. Tanks, armoured cars, and in fact all
modern inventions for war relying upon the magneto--the heart of the
petrol engine--will be rendered useless, and fighting will once more
resume its former status--a contest of manpower."

"Then you don't believe in the theory that war will be so terrible,
so scientifically brutal, that nations will be afraid to wage
battle?"

"No, I don't," replied Uncle Brian. "It will only be an additional
inducement for small nations to defy their greater neighbours. The
primal instinct can never be destroyed, but the means of waging war
ought to be controlled. According to the prophets, wars of the
future will resemble a prize fight with poisoned rings hidden in the
pugilists' gloves."

"Supposing, as is quite possible," objected Peter, "this invention
of yours is perfected? What if there's an antidote--what then?"

Uncle Brian shrugged his shoulders--a habit he had acquired from his
Rioguayan neighbours.

"That's what I am dreading," he replied. "Meanwhile, I'm going ahead
with this gadget. Now you see why I'm keen on your flying.
Obviously, I couldn't experiment upon a machine in charge of a
Rioguayan pilot. He'd smell a rat. But I can try it in a flying-boat
piloted by you, even if there is a crew on board. There would be no
danger, since I can control the rays before you are obliged to make
a forced landing. I'll see Jaurez in the morning and ask him when
you will be sufficiently trained to take charge. We'll give you a
week's practice from then and by that time I'll be ready for the big
test. Are you game?"

"Rather!" replied Peter.

They spent another hour overhauling the apparatus, Uncle Brian
carefully explaining the nature and use of the various component
parts until his nephew had a clear and comprehensive insight into
the mysteries of the new anti-aircraft device.

Then little Timothy was released from his box to resume his duties
of guardian of the experimental room, and Brian Strong and his
nephew, having locked the door, returned to the house.

Peter had another restless night. He was not altogether satisfied
that Uncle Brian's secret would be all that it claimed to be.
Unconsciously, he placed himself in the position of Uncle Brian's
rival and thought out schemes to counteract the blighting influence
of the mysterious rays. Must an aeroplane engine always be fired
electrically? he asked himself. Is a magneto or a battery and
trembler-coil a _sine qua non_ for the work? It was quite within the
bounds of possibility that a dynamo-driven engine might be produced,
receiving its current by means of a wireless current. Or there was
the hot-bulb engine--far too heavy in its present form for aerial
work, but was it too much to expect that in the near future it could
be reduced in weight and bulk without any sacrifice of horse-power?

"I hope Uncle Brian isn't putting all his eggs into one basket," he
soliloquized. "By Jove! I'll try a little experiment on my own
account. It will be rough luck on Uncle Brian if it comes off; but
better now than later."

And with the new-born plan maturing in his active mind, Peter lay
awake until pink hues in the eastern sky heralded the dawn of yet
another strenuous day.

According to his resolve, Brian Strong tackled Jaurez, the chief
aviator instructor, on the subject of his nephew's progress.

"He is a born bird-man, señor," replied Jaurez, with an admiration
that even his secret contempt for Englishmen failed to suppress.
"Reckless, _nombre de Dios!_ yes; but he can keep his head. In three
days, perhaps, then he will be sufficiently expert to go up in
control."

"That is good news," said Brian Strong.

Suddenly the instructor's mood changed.

"For why, Señor Strong, does your nephew wish to fly?" he demanded.
"Surely Rioguay can produce sufficient pilots without having to make
use of Englishmen?"

"I won't dispute that, Señor Jaurez," rejoined Peter's uncle. "But
it so happens that there are certain modifications in the design
which I wish to test. My knowledge of the Rioguayan tongue is fair,
as you know, but there are several technical terms of which I am
ignorant. You can readily see that there would be difficulties
innumerable if I had to discuss the improvements with a Rioguayan
pilot."

Señor Jaurez grinned amicably. Previous experience had taught him
that Brian Strong's assertion was a correct one. In the earlier
stages of the El Toro experimental and constructive works the
language difficulty had been a serious obstacle. He was a disciple
of the doctrine "follow the line of least resistance".

Eight days later, Peter went up for the first time as sole pilot of
that notorious flying-boat _El Boyeta_, but on this occasion he was
accompanied by three Rioguayan airmen who were sufficiently "salted"
to be immune from that distressing malady, air-sickness. Uncle Brian
was nowhere to be seen. He had retired to his private experimental
shed, having previously given Peter certain instructions.

According to the usual custom, Peter went on board to test the
controls. He was rather a long time--not that the testing was a
lengthy affair.

As soon as he gained the for'ard motor-room, he proceeded to enclose
the magneto of each of the two for'ard motors with sheets of pure
Para rubber, making a tight joint to each of the high tension and
"earth" wires.

The mechanic watched him curiously, but, having been given to
understand that certain experiments were to be carried out, he took
the unusual procedure with equanimity.

"Now," thought Peter, "won't Uncle be surprised if he succeeds in
only cutting out the after-engines. We'll see if his secret ray will
penetrate this insulated screen. I don't fancy it will."

He made his way back to the pilot's seat and gave the recognized
signal that everything was O.K. The rest of the crew swung
themselves into the observation saloon, while the ground attendants
removed the chocks from the massive, tyred landing-wheels.

Peter depressed the switch controlling the four electric starters.
Instantly the propellers revolved and the flying-boat quivered as if
eager to soar into her natural element.

A very short run--barely thirty yards--was enough for the machine to
acquire momentum sufficient to part company with Mother Earth. With
the planes tilted to their maximum angle, the flying-boat almost
leapt upwards.

The British pilot let her climb steadily, until the altimeter
registered 1800 metres. Then he flew steadily eastwards until the
flying-boat was immediately over the spacious lake of Sta
Estralloda. If the electric current were cut off and a hitch
occurred whereby Peter would be unable to restart the motors, the
flying-boat could descend and take the surface with little risk. A
forced landing on unsuitable and unyielding land might end
disastrously.

With frequent glances at the clock on the dashboard, Peter kept the
flying-boat soaring above the sheet of water. Although he did not
turn his head, he knew that curious eyes were watching him through
the window between the saloon and his "office". Ostensibly, the
experiments were to prove the efficacy of a loud-speaking wireless
telephone that claimed to be proof against atmospherics and "cutting
in". It was sheer bluff on Brian Strong's part, but it sufficed to
allay suspicion as to the real nature of the test.

The hands of the clock simply crawled round until they indicated
10.15--the pre-arranged time for the liberation of the secret ray.

Nothing happened! The motors continued to purr with their usual
rhythm. It made no difference that the magnetos of the for'ard pair
were insulated and those of the after engines were not.

On the face of things, Uncle Brian's experiment was a failure.

Another minute elapsed. Peter continued to keep the flying-boat
circling, at the same time descending to 1500 metres.

Suddenly the whole fabric trembled violently. The engines ceased
firing, the propellers turning on a free axis under wind pressure
only. Then, in less than five seconds, the motors "picked up" again
and resumed their normal revolutions.

Glancing downwards, Peter could see the mechanic had been aroused
from his usual state of lethargy; for, in ordinary circumstances, he
had little or nothing to do while the machine was in actual flight.
Whether the engineer in charge of the after motors had been
similarly startled Peter had no immediate means of finding out.

But what puzzled the pilot was the brief duration of the "short".
Uncle Brian had arranged for a sixty-seconds liberation of the
polarizing rays. Without the shadow of a doubt, the momentary
cutting out of the "juice" was owing to Uncle Brian's "gadget". Had
one motor only faltered, Peter might have attributed that to known
engine trouble; since all four were affected simultaneously, the
phenomenon could only be put down to the mysterious rays.

Peter Corbold was a fellow who always liked to get down to rock
bottom, when dealing with a knotty proposition. He was still
puzzling over the affair and trying to find a possible solution,
when once again the motors ceased functioning.

This time, the "cutting out" was definitely prolonged. Peter
prepared for a vol-plane, elevating the wings to their maximum
resistance in order to check the downward glide, the while circling
to keep the flying-boat immediately over the expanse of lake.

For all practicable purposes the machine was now a motorless glider
without the power, owing to her weight and the limited area of the
planes, to rise to a favourable air current. The best she could do
was to fly horizontally for a few seconds and then glide earthwards.
Sooner or later, unless the engines regained their power, the
machine must come to rest on the surface of the water.

The Rioguayan crew were now in a state bordering on panic. It was
fortunate that Peter had taken the precaution to bolt the door
between him and them, or his office would have been invaded, with
disastrous results.

Foiled in that direction, the Rioguayans could only stare
helplessly, until the sight of the hare-brained Englishman coolly
manipulating the planes and rudders helped to restore them to a
state of passivity.

All this occurred in the space of forty-five seconds. Peter was
beginning to doubt whether he could keep up for the remainder of the
stipulated minute when at a height of one hundred metres the motors
fired again.

"Well, that's proved the device, any old way," decided Peter, as he
began to ascend again. "My insulation stunt is a dud, but I'm jolly
glad it is."

Another twenty minutes elapsed before the flying-boat landed at El
Toro, for Peter was in no hurry, as he wished to restore confidence
in his somewhat tremulous fellow-airmen.

Uncle Brian was there to greet him.

"It's no good, Uncle," Peter lied loudly. "The telephone was an
absolute wash-out. I even switched off to try and pick up what you
were saying."

If there were any Rioguayans amongst those present who understood
English, Peter's mendacious assertion would serve to offer a
solution to the failure of the flying-boat's ignition system. In
fact, Brian Strong hastened to translate the gist of his nephew's
explanation. At the same time, Uncle Brian knew that his secret
device had been proved and had passed the test. Peter's declaration
that he "switched off" was sufficient for that. Mutual and authentic
exchanges of their observations would come at the next convenient
opportunity.

For the present, all was well.




CHAPTER X

Plans for Escape


"Well?" inquired Uncle Brian laconically, when, the trial of the
rays duly carried out, he and Peter were free to discuss the
situation in all its bearings.

The two men were seated in the billiard room of El Toro. It was the
time for siesta, but on this occasion neither Uncle Brian nor Peter
sought repose. In the darkened room, for the double windows and the
jalousied shutters were closed, they felt more like conspirators
than loyal citizens of that great Empire upon which the sun never
sets.

Four large electric fans were purring gently, not only to circulate
the air, but to render conversation inaudible to anyone without.
This, in Brian Strong's opinion, was a necessary precaution.
Although work was entirely suspended during siesta, it was quite
possible that there were persons about keenly anxious to overhear
any conversation between the two Englishmen.

"It worked," replied Peter.

"So I gathered," rejoined his relative. "But----"

"But what?"

"You weren't dead on time, Uncle," said Peter. "Then, when you
released the rays the action was only momentary at first. The second
attempt was prolonged, but not to anything like a minute."

"I'll explain," said Brian Strong. "I kept the day telescopic sights
on you the whole time and released the electric charge sharp on
time. As far as I could observe, there were no results. I was
beginning to feel a bit disappointed, I'll admit, until after some
considerable time I noticed that you were gliding down. I had
previously given the vernier screw regulating the telescopic sights
a few turns. Then I realized what had happened. Either the line of
sight was not exactly parallel with the centre of the beam of
electricity, or else there was some discrepancy due possibly to
parallax. Once your flying-boat was correctly registered, so to
speak, you were under the influence of the rays. So I decided to
give a full minute for the experiment."

"But you didn't," objected Peter. "The old 'bus picked up again in
forty-five seconds. You can be pretty sure I had my eye on the clock
all right!"

"That's what I wanted to know," continued his uncle. "You see, I
gave a full minute's liberation. You say your magnetos were cut out
for three-quarters of a minute only. That was because I couldn't see
you during the last fifteen seconds. You were hidden from direct
observation by an intervening ridge."

"I see," observed Peter, nodding his head.

"So do I now," added Strong. "I had hoped that the rays would be
active beyond an obstruction of that sort. Had they been so, it
would be possible to keep a whole fleet of aeroplanes pinned to the
ground, unable to rise. It is a curious point as to what does
happen: whether the electric fluid is deflected by intervening
ground or whether it stands dead up against it--like a beam of
light, for instance, playing upon a dead black substance. Then,
again, we've proved that the metal fuselage affords no insulation to
protect the magnetos from the rays."

"Nor does a sheet of rubber," announced Peter. "I tried that little
stunt on my own."

"Did you?" remarked his uncle. "Evidently you hadn't much faith in
my invention."

"Not that," Peter hastened to assure him. "It was simply to see if
there were an easy means to render the ignition system immune from
the rays. I was jolly glad I wasn't able to baulk you, Uncle."

"Well, that's a good thing," said Brian Strong. "The next step is to
dismantle the projector, pack up the vital portions of the
apparatus, and make a hurried exodus from Rioguay. It's easier said
than done, Peter, and unless I'm very much out in my calculations,
we'll have our hands full when we do come to tackle the problem."

"What's to prevent our going down to Tepecicoa and taking passage to
Bahia? There's a steamer running once a week."

"Nothing to prevent us making a start," replied his uncle, "but the
chances of our getting clear of Rioguay by that means are very
remote. There would be a regrettable accident--according to the
Rioguayan official version for foreign consumption--and there you
are, or, rather, are not."

"But isn't there a British consul in Tepecicoa?" persisted Peter,
who found it hard to believe that a British subject is not always,
and in all circumstances, free to indulge his propensity for foreign
travel.

"There is no British consul," was the reply. "Rioguay in the opinion
of the Foreign Office isn't a state of sufficient importance to
justify that expensive luxury. There is a British Consular Agent,
who happens to be a Portuguese of doubtful antecedents. I don't
suppose he has a British subject in his office once in a
twelvemonth. You see, there's no direct trade with Great Britain.
Time was, before the Great War, when vessels flying the Red Ensign
came up the Rioguay to San Antonio, Calador, and even as far up as
Tepecicoa. Nowadays, owing to the slump in British shipping and the
relatively high prices charged for British goods, there is never a
vessel of our nationality to be seen in Rioguayan waters. If the
Rioguayans require hardware they go to the United States for it. In
fact, it seems to me that there's a boycott of British goods out
here, and all indications point to a growing hostility to Britain
and everything connected with her. Personally, I'm inclined to think
that we're going to have trouble with Rioguay one of these days, and
big trouble, too."

For some minutes, there was silence. Both men were thinking hard.
Presently, Uncle Brian walked across the room to a cabinet, which,
when opened, disclosed a tantalus, glasses, and several siphons of
soda.

"No, I'm not going to ask you to have a drink, Peter," he laughed.
"This stuff is for the use of my Rioguayan friends--if friends I may
call them. But it happens that this cabinet has a secret drawer,
which I find most useful."

He pressed a concealed spring. A long, narrow section of the side
swung back. From the recess, Uncle Brian drew a roll of stiff paper.

"Here's a map of Upper Rioguay," he announced. "Of course, it's far
from perfect, but in the main it is fairly reliable. I got it from a
fellow in Venezuela before I came here. In fact, having acquired it,
I was rather curious to make personal acquaintance with the country.
It was made when there was a dispute between Rioguay and Venezuela
over the fixing of the frontier. Evidently the Venezuelans
contemplated an invasion of Rioguay, but either the difference was
amicably settled or they thought that sending a force through that
difficult country was too stiff a proposition. Now, if you had to
decide upon a plan to get out of the country, what would you decide
upon?"

"I'd make for either San Benito or San Valodar," said Peter
promptly. "Both have a coast-line. Once across the frontier, there's
a thundering good chance of picking up a ship."

"Exactly," rejoined Uncle Brian drily. "When you are clear of
Rioguay. But what chance would you stand to get even as far as
Valodar without being arrested? My boy, you underrate the secret
service of the republic. You might---I say might with great
emphasis--you might gain possession of one of the flying-boats. But
to what purpose? They'd fix your position with their magneto
detectors. There would be half a dozen aircraft waiting for you
before you as much as caught a glimpse of the sea. Even supposing
you got as far as the supposedly neutral republics of San Benito or
San Valodar, you'd find both places swarming with Rioguayan agents
who wouldn't hesitate to stick a knife into your back, or pump half
a dozen shots out of an automatic into you. Assassination under the
guise of robbery. That's what would happen. No, Peter, it can't be
done. We'll have to think of another way."

"Have you thought of anything?" asked Peter, who for the first time
fully appreciated the intricacies of the problem by which Uncle
Brian was confronted.

"I have," replied Uncle Brian. "I've been thinking it out for
months--almost as soon as I discovered what I was engaged for.
There's one line of retreat."

He pointed to the chart, indicating a vast extent of mountainous
country, through which several rivers wended their way. The whole
district, judging from the map, was devoid of towns and villages.
Occasionally an outpost was indicated, where detachments of armed
police were stationed for no other apparent purpose than to keep
watch over an uninhabited district.

"Of course, we may not find these police posts," continued Uncle
Brian. "Since the settlement of the boundary dispute they may have
been withdrawn. Tajeco, whence our pipe line runs, is the only place
of any consequence. Apart from that, the whole country is
mountainous, with the valleys stiff with tropical forests. Now, this
is my plan: see these two rivers--the Rio Tinto and the Rio del
Morte? They both join the Rio Guaya at about thirty miles above
Tepecicoa. As you know, ordinary navigation is impossible ten miles
above the town, owing to shallows, but canoes and light draft craft
can ascend both the Rio Tinto and the Rio del Morte for a
considerable distance. In fact, the Rio del Morte has never been
explored to its source, so the map is merely guesswork as far as
that river is concerned. That's our way to freedom, Peter. It will
be a difficult, a hazardous way, but with luck we'll win through."

"We'll have a jolly good shot at it," declared Peter with grim
determination. "But how can we get away from here without arousing
suspicion? For anything we know, your friend Diaz may be keeping an
eye on us already."

"Bluff," replied his uncle. "I'll tackle Don Ramon Diaz, tell him
I'm badly in need of a holiday. Fact!" he continued; "haven't been
ten miles from El Toro for months. We'll get his permission for a
ten-days shooting trip up the Rio Guaya. He'll probably take good
care that we do go up, not down, because he'd never imagine that we
were fools enough to attempt to penetrate that wild and mountainous
country. We'll give out that we are exploring the Rio Tinto, but in
reality we'll make a dash up the Rio del Morte as far as we can by
water and foot it the rest of the way. It won't be a picnic, Peter,
I can assure you. We'll have to travel light, depend upon our rifles
for food, probably be half frozen before those mountains are
crossed--but it's worth it."

"Rather!" agreed Peter Corbold enthusiastically.




CHAPTER XI

Up the Rio Guaya


"How does your marvellous searchlight progress, Señor Strong?"
inquired Don Ramon Diaz.

Brian shook his head.

"Not at all well, Señor," he replied. "In fact, I'm beginning to
think I've worked myself to a standstill."

"Is that so?" said the Rioguayan, giving the Englishman a sharp
glance. "But, as a rule, one does not test searchlights by day."

"In this case one does," replied Brian. "If the combined telephone
and searchlight apparatus can be perfected--as no doubt some day it
will--you will reap the benefit. Or at least, the Republic of
Rioguay will. Regarding daylight experiments, you will agree that it
is easier to make delicate adjustments by natural light. The testing
under actual working conditions at night will be made later. But
that brings me to another point, Señor. I'm badly in want of a
holiday."

"Not a long one, I beg?"

"Oh no," replied Brian jauntily. "A week or ten days. My nephew and
I would like to have a shooting trip up the Rio Tinto."

"It is dangerous--very dangerous," declared Ramon Diaz. "And, Señor,
we do not want to lose your valuable services just yet."

"Perhaps not," rejoined the Englishman. "But there are other ways of
doing that without running risks on the Rio Tinto."

"What do you mean?" demanded the Rioguayan suspiciously.

"For instance, I might have brain fever through overwork," replied
Brian. "I feel pretty confident that on my return I can tackle the
present perplexing problem with a far better chance of success."

Ramon Diaz considered the matter. He realized that he was in a
position to refuse to grant permission. But at the same time, it was
too early to show himself in his true colours. He had to make more
use of the Englishman's undoubted skill before Rioguay was in a
position to throw down the gauntlet to the British Empire. And Señor
Strong's request was not unreasonable. He was supposed to be a free
agent in the employ of the Rioguayan Government. To thwart him might
cause trouble. He had not asked to go for a holiday to San Benito or
anywhere in that direction. He wished to go up-country into the
wilds beyond which was an impassable mountain chain, or at least
impassable except with a train of mules to carry provisions and
stores for a prolonged and perilous trek. No, there was no risk as
far as Don Ramon was concerned. The Englishman would still be a
prisoner in Rioguayan territory.

"Very good, Señor Strong," he said. "We can spare you for ten days.
I hope you have good sport. Of course, if you like, we will send
along a flying-boat to see how you fare in case your boat meets with
a mishap and you are stranded."

"I should be delighted, Señor Diaz," replied Brian, without as much
as a flicker of his eyelids. "Say in a week's time. She would be
quite able to spot us up the Rio Tinto. I do not suppose we'll
ascend for more than thirty kilometres."

The two parted, Ramon Diaz shaking hands with himself at the
prospect of being able to verify his suspicions as to what Señor
Strong's secret invention actually was; Brian chuckling with
satisfaction at the thought that he had bluffed the Rioguayan so
neatly.

Early next morning, the two Englishmen started on their dash for
freedom. The final preparations took but little time, compared with
the many hours spent in stealth to collect the essential portions of
the secret ray apparatus.

The latter, wrapped in oiled silk, were hidden in bags containing
provisions, the smaller and intricate pieces being concealed in
empty cartridge-cases and placed in Brian's ammunition belt.

They took complete camp equipment, not that they had any idea of
travelling on foot with it, but chiefly to lend colour to the
deception that they were on a shooting expedition. Heavily-soled
boots, leggings, change of socks and underclothing, sleeping-bags,
and small mosquito nets, formed their travelling luggage. For
defence and as a means of procuring food Brian carried a twelve-bore
double-barrelled shot-gun, Peter an Express magazine rifle. In
addition, they each had a 230 automatic pistol.

Brian Strong had already handed over the keys and given final
instructions to the acting manager, an intelligent Rioguayan, who
had more black blood in his veins than white.

The peons carried the gear down to the little landing-stage of the
estate, where a small half-tide backwater communicated with the wide
estuary of the Rio Guaya.

"There's our boat," announced Brian.

His nephew regarded the craft critically. He was not at all
favourably impressed. As a deep-sea sailor he had an instinctive eye
for boats. He could judge a small craft's capabilities without going
on board and rarely was his judgment at fault.

What he saw was obviously a roughly-built boat of soft wood, about
twenty feet over-all and four feet in beam. She drew about four or
five inches of water when at rest, while her freeboard seemed
decidedly excessive. Her bow and stern were straight; she had little
or no sheer, and with the exception of three feet from the bows was
entirely open. In fact, viewed broadside-on she resembled what the
Americans term a dory, but was without the characteristic sheer that
these able little boats possess.

But it was the stern with which Peter found fault. So far the
builder, whoever he might be, had made a creditable job, but for
some inexplicable reason the after part tapered off, terminating in
a transom only nine inches in width. Thus, not only was the boat
deprived of useful bearing surface aft, to lift to a following sea,
but she was additionally hampered by a heavy out-board motor clamped
to the narrow transom.

"What do you think of her?" inquired Uncle Brian.

"Not much," replied Peter bluntly. "Looks to me like a cross between
a pauper's coffin and an orange box. She'll fill in the first bit of
sea we meet."

"Not likely to do that," replied his relative. "It's all sheltered
water. We'll pile the gear for'ard. Beggars can't be choosers, and
this is the best I could pick up for the job. There's a mast and
sail; shall we take them?"

Peter shook his head emphatically.

"Unless you want to make Kingdom Come straight away, Uncle," he
said. "She's no keel, so there's no grip on the water. That idiotic
rudder on the engine's all right for what it is intended, but you
wouldn't be able to keep the boat on a wind with it. She'd broach-to
and dive right under at the first hard puff. No, scrap it."

Uncle Brian did so. He was no sailorman, and he had the common sense
not to pretend that he was. The mast and sail were handed to one of
the peons with instructions to take them back to the store, and the
work of loading up was resumed.

Ten two-gallon tins of petrol, mixed with the necessary quantity of
lubricating oil, were stowed amidships, to add to the pile of gear
already flush with the coamings.

"All aboard, Peter!" exclaimed his uncle, signing to the peons to
cast off.

The motor, like the majority of two-strokes, started only after
considerable persuasion, and the little craft was headed for the
broad waters of the Rio Guaya.

"I hope we've seen the last of El Toro, Peter," said his uncle, who
seemed utterly indifferent to the fact that his whole personal
estate had had to be abandoned. Compared with the service he hoped
to do to his country, the loss was negligible.

All day the pauper's-coffin-_cum_-orange-box was kept hard at it.
Even during the terrific midday heat, with nothing save their
broad-brimmed straw hats to shield them from the almost vertical
rays, they stuck it gamely. Their freak craft was taking them
steadily at four knots "over the ground", in spite of an adverse
current which they encountered as soon as the influence of the tide
ceased.

Well before nightfall, the boat was alone on the river. Rarely were
craft of any description to be encountered fifty miles above
Tepecicoa. Occasionally, an Indian canoe, rough-hewn from a
tree-trunk, was seen keeping discreetly close to the well-wooded
banks, but civilized Rioguay seemed to have halted sharply at a spot
where a range of low hills dipped to allow the now shallow stream to
pass on its way to the ocean.

So far, the craft that had aroused Peter's resentment had done
remarkably well. He was beginning to feel a certain amount of
confidence in her; but, he reminded himself, there had been no wind
and the water was as smooth as a mill pond.

As a matter of fact, a tornado might be blowing and the surface of
the river would be hardly ruffled, provided the wind was at right
angles to the course of the stream, for the banks were high and
deeply wooded. In places the giant vegetation almost formed a
complete archway over the river. Caymans floated idly on the water,
looking more like half-sunken logs, until the approach of the
motor-driven boat aroused them from their lethargy. Enormous eels,
some of them of the deadly electric variety, could be seen beneath
the placid surface, giving promise of a horrible death to any human
being who, by accident or design, had to take to swimming in those
cool and tranquil waters. Through the foliage came the unmistakable
signs of the presence of jaguars and panthers, while more than once
Peter caught sight of an enormous anaconda gliding over the
branches.

With death lurking in the water and in the forests on either side,
the prospect did not seem particularly alluring.

Well before sunset, the boat was run ashore on a small island,
almost destitute of trees and covered with high grass. On one side
there was a narrow sandy beach. The other sides were composed of
rock rising sheer out of the water to a height of about ten feet.

"This looks like a comfortable camping-ground," observed Uncle
Brian, as he leapt ashore and stretched his cramped legs. "According
to the map, we're only five miles below the junction of the Rio
Tinto and the Rio Guaya. I'd like to push on and get clear of the
forests for a while, but it's too risky in the dark."

"S'pose it's all right," responded his nephew, "but how about the
grass? I've no particular desire to get chawed up by a jaguar or
pipped by a snake. And if we sleep on the sand, or even in the boat,
there's a chance of a hungry alligator butting in."

"We must get sleep," declared Uncle Brian. "It is absolutely
essential at this stage of our journey. Later on we may not have the
opportunity. We'll keep watch-and-watch. As an extra precaution, I
think we'll fire this grass."

"Don't forget we've gallons and gallons of petrol on the boat,"
Peter reminded him.

"By Jove, yes," agreed his uncle. "All right, Peter, you push off in
the boat until the grass has burned itself out. It won't be very
long."

Peter took to the oars and rowed the "orange-box" well out into the
stream. Brian Strong struck a match and applied it to the sun-dried
grass. The result exceeded his expectations. The flames literally
ran, throwing orange-coloured tongues of fire fifty feet in the air.

The heat was terrific. Although he retreated to the water's edge,
with twenty yards of sand between him and the edge of the
conflagration, Brian could barely stand his ground.

It was a nasty predicament. To shout to Peter to bring the boat in
would probably result in the petrol exploding, since the sparks were
flying to wind'ard, which was what Brian Strong had thought he had
guarded against. To attempt to swim off was equally hazardous, owing
to the presence of the deadly electric eels.

The flames died down almost as quickly as they had shot up, although
on the furthermost side of the island the fire was burning even more
fiercely than before.

In a quarter of an hour the place was thoroughly cleared of animal
and vegetable life, the bare rock showing through the diminishing
wreaths of smoke from the smouldering timber.

"We've cleared out the mosquitoes at all events," declared Peter, as
he rejoined his uncle and once more made the boat secure. "S'pose
this packet will be all right in case of a shift of wind?"

"We're sheltered," declared Uncle Brian. "The only wind that can
hurt us is a southerly one. That's very rare in this district; it's
the Norther that plays up Old Harry.... Right-o, you turn in. I'll
keep watch till midnight; that's another five hours. We'll make a
start at dawn."

Clearing away a space amidships, Peter lay down in the boat and was
soon sound asleep, his strange surroundings notwithstanding. In
fact, it seemed to him that he had only just dropped off when his
uncle roused him.

"Half-past twelve, Peter," he announced.

Peter had been used to keeping Middle Watch, but, if the truth be
told, he would have infinitely preferred the bridge of a British
cruiser at 1 a.m. to the stretch of sand on the edge of the
fire-devastated island.

It was not pitch-dark. A dank mist hung over the river, blotting out
the tree-clad banks on either hand. Overhead, the stars shone dimly
through the drifting pall of vapour. The air reeked with noxious
odours of decaying vegetation mingled with the sickly smell from the
burnt grass.

From the depths of the forests came unmistakable sounds to indicate
that the never-ceasing war between the various denizens was being
briskly prosecuted. The shrill cries of a colony of monkeys, their
rest suddenly disturbed by a hungry puma, the death-cry of a deer,
crushed to the ground by the irresistible weight of a leaping
jaguar; the squeal of agony of some luckless animal seized in the
act of drinking on the riverbank, by the powerful jaws of a
cayman--these were but a few of the noises that disturbed the
silence of the tropical night.

The river flowed silently past the rocky islet on which the
Englishmen were camping, but even the river contributed to the
disturbing factors. Ever and again there was a sullen splash, as a
semi-torpid alligator collided with another of his kind.

A little later on--it must have been about two in the morning--Peter
noticed several dark objects drifting downstream. At first he
thought that they were caymans, until one of them, hitching upon a
submerged rock, revealed itself as a huge tree trunk. Swinging
round, the massive log fouled another projection. Quickly a second
trunk drifted against the first, then another, and yet another,
until the "jam" assumed gigantic proportions, extending from
midstream to within ten or twelve yards from the sandy beach of the
little island.

Suddenly, from the rapidly increasing raft, a lithe shape leapt
shorewards. Its leap was insufficient to clear the intervening
space. It fell into the water and commenced swimming for the island.

Before Peter could grasp the situation and level his rifle, the
animal rushed past him at a distance less than fifty paces, and with
a cat-like bound gained the high rocky ground and disappeared from
view.

It was a jaguar, one of the most formidable and cunning animals of
the South American forests. And now the brute, possibly ravenous
from its prolonged stay on the floating log, was marooned on a
barren islet. In such circumstances it would not hesitate to attack
man.

It was no exaggeration to say that Peter "had the wind up"--badly.
The bare rock eight feet high and less than twenty feet from the
boat, offered an excellent "take off" for a hungry jaguar. Yet Peter
hesitated to rouse his relative. Although he was in a blue funk, it
struck him that it was a far greater admission of fear to have to
acknowledge the fact. Very cautiously, he laid down his rifle and
took up the double-barrelled shot-gun, reasoning that with a heavy
charge of buck-shot he stood a better chance of dealing with the
huge feline than with a rifle.

Then, with his face to the menacing wall of rock, and with the gun
held at the "ready", Peter prepared for the coming attack, since he
felt certain that the jaguar would take the offensive.

From that moment he had no knowledge of the passing of time. It
seemed an hour, perhaps more, before the tension was relaxed.

Somewhere on his right he felt certain that there was something
moving. In the misty starlight he could discern, as he turned his
head, a long, writhing object moving over the sand. At first he took
the creature to be a large eel, but soon he was certain that the
thing was a huge serpent.

It was only ten paces off when Peter brought the gun to his shoulder
and pressed the left trigger. The weapon clicked harmlessly. He
pressed the right trigger. The result was the same.

Dropping the useless weapon, Peter grasped the previously discarded
rifle. A vivid flash stabbed the night air, followed by a sharp
report that sent myriads of birds fluttering in terror from the
trees on the river banks.

Whether the bullet took effect or not Peter could not tell, but the
reptile slewed round and with almost incredible rapidity made for
the rocky wall of the island.

"Hello! What's wrong?" inquired Uncle Brian, awake in a moment.

Peter briefly outlined the situation.

"H'm!" ejaculated his uncle. "Seems to me that we've chosen a sort
of animal casual ward for our camp. Two misfires? Where's my torch?"

The electric torch was soon forthcoming. Brian Strong picked up the
gun and ejected both cartridges. On examination the caps in their
bases showed no sign of a blow.

Brian said nothing, but thought the more.

He placed the double-barrelled weapon in the boat and unfastened the
flap of his automatic holster.

"Almost wish we'd carried on," he remarked at length. "At all
events----"

A crumbling, swirling sound interrupted his remarks. The "jam" that
had been steadily and almost silently mounting up for the last hour
or more had suddenly given way. The pent-up waters had forced the
barrier of logs from the rocks that had impeded their progress, and
now in a smother of foam the accumulated floating timber was
speeding on its way.

"No," continued Uncle Brian. "I think we'd better hang on where we
are. We'll make a fire to cheer us up, though."




CHAPTER XII

"Caught Out"


It was easier said than done. The overnight conflagration had
destroyed every vestige of brushwood. With the prospect of being
leapt upon by a highly formidable jaguar or seized by a
boa-constrictor already incensed by the proximity of a high-velocity
bullet, it was not advisable to attempt to gather driftwood under
the base of the low cliff. To attempt to fish pieces of floating
brushwood from the river, when in the dim light it was a matter of
impossibility to distinguish between a waterlogged tendril and a
watersnake--and at the same time to present their backs to the
lurking foe on the rocks--was also too risky a proposition.

"We'll have to sacrifice some of our petrol," decided Uncle Brian.
"There's some cotton waste in the locker under the fore-deck."

The waste soaked in petrol was placed on the ground at a safe
distance from the boat. A match was applied and the flames shot high
in the air, accompanied by a hissing sound that could not be
attributed to the combustion of the highly volatile spirit.

At intervals Peter replenished the fuel by the simple expedient of
squirting petrol from a syringe. The flames were brilliant enough,
but still the spluttering noise continued.

Thus the two men spent the weary and anxious hours until the time
should come when there would be enough light to enable them to
continue their voyage, the while keeping eyes strained and ears
alert for indications of danger.

Suddenly the air was rent by a terrific shriek ending in a
long-drawn-out howl. Somewhere beyond the edge of the low cliff a
heavy body was thudding violently against the hard ground.

Then for a few seconds, exposed to the full glare of the petrol
flare, appeared the head and fore-quarters of the jaguar. The
animal's eyes were almost starting from its head; its mouth was wide
open, displaying a double row of glistening teeth and a red, lolling
tongue.

Peter raised his rifle, but before he could press the trigger, the
head and shoulders disappeared. A brief interval ensued, then the
jaguar's hind-quarters appeared, the clawed feet pawing aimlessly in
the air.

"Don't fire!" shouted Uncle Brian. "He's got more than he bargained
for. The anaconda's seized him."

The rest of the tragedy was hidden from human view, although the
sounds from the scene of anguish gave a pretty clear indication of
what was taking place. Held in the remorseless tension of several
coils, the jaguar was being slowly crushed to death. Nevertheless,
it was putting up a strenuous resistance, rolling over and over in a
vain attempt to crush the anaconda by the weight of its body. Gasps
and howls of agony rent the night air which, already heavy with
pestilential odours, now reeked of blood and the nauseating smell
from the huge reptile.

The cracking of the jaguar's ribs under the irresistible pressure
was now distinctly audible. The groans ceased. The anaconda was
preparing for its gargantuan meal.

"Can't we make a move?" asked Peter. "This stench is simply
unbearable."

He would have willingly risked the hidden dangers of that uncharted,
cayman-infested river in the darkness to get away from the noxious
camping-place, but Uncle Brian was obdurate.

"We must stick it till dawn," he declared firmly, but without giving
any reason.

At length the day broke with the rapidity common in the Tropics. The
roaring of the beasts of the forest died away and a strange
stillness brooded over the now languid river.

"Thank Heaven!" ejaculated Peter fervently. "Now for a fresh start."

"We'll have a look at our friend the anaconda," suggested Uncle
Brian. "The reptile did us a good turn, I fancy, for the jaguar was
on the point of springing at us when he was seized."

There was little need for caution. On climbing up the rocky ledge
they found the anaconda still engaged in swallowing its prodigious
meal. The reptile was about twenty-five feet in length and normally
as big round as a man's thigh, but now it was tremendously distended
in spite of the fact that the head and half of the body of the
jaguar, crushed almost to a pulp, had yet to be consumed.

It was not a sight to watch for long. The men returned to the boat.
Then Uncle Brian unburdened himself.

"Don Ramon and his pals evidently don't want us to return to El
Toro," he said abruptly.

"I'm not altogether surprised at that," rejoined Peter. "But where
are your proofs, Uncle?"

"Here," replied Brian, indicating his double-barrelled gun and the
petrol tins. "This gun has been tampered with. The striking
mechanism has been thrown out of action. That's why you had two
missfires. And the petrol has been liberally watered; I guessed as
much when it spluttered. Before we get under way, we must pass every
drop of petrol through a strainer."

The gun was beyond repair with the limited tools at their disposal.
For all useful purposes the weapon and a hundred shot-cartridges
were so much lumber. They had better luck with the "doctored"
petrol. By means of a strainer and a piece of fine muslin, the
spirit was practically freed from water. In the process the fuel
supply was appreciably diminished, for every tin had been tampered
with, except the one which had supplied the petrol for the previous
day's run.

The double discovery was a disconcerting one. Nevertheless, it left
Brian Strong a tolerably free hand. The mask was off. Either Don
Ramon Diaz had his suspicions, or else he had no longer any need for
the Englishman's services, and in that case had no scruples about
descending to a trick by which Brian and Peter might meet with
disaster and death in the wilds of the Upper Rio Guaya, or its
tributary the Rio Tinto.

It was half-past eight in the morning before the voyage was resumed.
Before long, the confluence of the Rio Tinto and the Rio del Morte
was sighted. Brian, who was steering, ported helm and shaped a
course towards the left bank, where the latter tributary joined its
coffee-coloured waters with those of the Rio Guaya.

Presently Peter, who was engaged in cleaning out the barrel of his
Express rifle, happened to glance skywards. Following the boat at a
height of about two thousand feet was one of the units of the
Rioguayan air fleet.

How long the flying-boat had had them under observation, neither
Peter nor his uncle could say. The rapid throb of the outboard motor
had prevented them hearing the deeper roar of the flying-boat's
quadruple engines.

Knowing to an almost absolute certainty that the aircraft's crew had
them under clear observation by means of powerful binoculars, Uncle
Brian carefully avoided looking up. A sudden alteration of helm
would be a false move. He kept steadily in his course for a few
minutes before putting the helm to starboard and making for the Rio
Tinto.

"That's awkward," remarked Uncle Brian. "They won't leave us alone.
We'll have to make a feint of ascending the Rio Tinto. It will mean
a day's delay and a night dash for the Rio del Morte."

"Perhaps when they see we're well on our way up the Rio Tinto
they'll clear off," hazarded Peter.

Apparently his surmise was correct, for after circling overhead for
three hours, the flying-boat disappeared in the direction of
Tepecicoa, without having made any attempt to molest or even
communicate with the Englishmen.

During the heat of the day the fugitives rested, anchoring their
little craft by means of a big stone and a rope in the shade of an
overhanging tree. Here they were screened from aerial observation,
but no buzz of propellers disturbed their rest. The flying-boat had,
in fact, returned to the base with the news that the mad Englishmen
had really taken the Rio Tinto course.

It was not until four in the afternoon that the outboard motor was
restarted and the course retraced to the Rio Guaya. Not without
considerable trepidation, Brian steered across the broad river and
made the narrow entrance to the sinister Rio del Morte.

Here the banks were lofty and precipitous, the stream flowing at the
rate of four miles an hour through a bottle-necked gorge of less
than a hundred yards in width and nearly a mile in length.

Progress was in consequence tediously slow, an hour elapsing before
the boat joined the wider expanse above the defile. Ahead the river
broadened still more into a fairly large lake which the map had
entirely ignored. At the farthermost end the flat shores were broken
by a number of rocky pinnacles, but whether they were small islands
or merely parts of the mainland, it was as yet impossible to
determine. The forests had now been left behind, the shores of the
lake being treeless and bare, save for occasional patches of pampas
grass and cacti.

"Think we'll fetch the other end before dark, Uncle?" asked Peter.
"It's quite five miles off."

"Might," replied Brian unconcernedly. "It doesn't matter much if we
don't. We're carrying on at night. I think we decided upon that?"

"Yes," agreed his nephew, "we did. But we didn't reckon on having to
navigate a lake. We don't know where the inlet is. It might be
between any of those projections we can see ahead; and it will be no
joke barging about on a dark night trying to find a way out."

"We'll do it, never you fear," rejoined his uncle, with one of those
bursts of sublime optimism that characterized his mercurial spirits.

Soon it became evident that Peter had miscalculated the length of
the lake. Darkness was drawing nigh and still the range of rocky
pinnacles was far enough away to baffle any attempt to fix the
channel with any degree of reliability.

The wind, too, hitherto light, was piping up dead astern and against
the slight but distinctly perceptible current.

Peter was steering. More than once he glanced astern at the curling
waves. In a craft possessing any degree of seaworthiness he would
not have troubled to look behind him, knowing the short-crested
waves would pass harmlessly under the boat's keel. But the keelless
type of freak construction was already giving signs of trouble. The
metal rudder, of absurdly insignificant proportions, had little or
no grip, except when at short intervals the narrow stern, weighted
by the heavy outboard engine, dipped dangerously in the hollow
water. At one moment the engine was almost stopped by the increased
resistance of the deeply immersed blades; at another, the motor was
racing furiously as the "orange-box" buried her bows and threatened
to broach-to.

Both men realized the danger. Wave-crests were flicking over the
sides of the little craft. Brian Strong was busily engaged in
baling. Peter was endeavouring to keep the boat on her course, the
while striving to discern an outlet between the still distant rocks.

Presently darkness fell upon the scene. The wind was increasing and
now blew with the force of a "fresh breeze". Peter would have
laughed at it in a seaworthy centre-board dinghy, but in present
conditions, he knew it was far from being a laughing matter.
Somewhere, and not very far distant by this time, was a lee shore.
The "rebound" from the land at this end of the lake was already
becoming apparent, for the waves were now becoming irregular and
confused. Uncle Brian's task was a difficult one, for of all sorts
of craft those with flat bottoms are the most awkward to bale out.
In spite of his strenuous efforts the water was gaining. He
communicated the news to his nephew.

"All right!" shouted Peter encouragingly. "I'll round to. Pass an
oar through one of the sleeping-bags and weight the lower end of the
bag. It will make a sea-anchor and we can ride to that. Call out
when you're ready."

Uncle Brian understood. Although not a seaman, he was used to small
boat work. He began to prepare the sea-anchor, which when hove
overboard would keep the boat's head to wind, act as a floating
breakwater, and reduce her drift to a little less than a mile an
hour.

Suddenly the boat's stern dipped more than before. A wave broke
inboard, sweeping completely over the outboard motor. The engine
stopped. Either the water had short-circuited the high-tension wire,
or else had found its way into the carburettor.

Immediately, the "orange-box" swung round broadside on to the wind,
with the water already up to her crew's knees.

"Be sharp!" cautioned Peter, at the same time grasping a can of
lubricating oil, unscrewing the cap, and throwing a quantity of the
heavy liquid to wind'ard.

The action of the oil immediately quelled the waves, the boat
drifting to lee'ard of a wide and steadily increasing patch of
smooth water. But so rapid was her drift that she quickly drove
beyond the oil-quelled area, and once more the waves swept over her
side. Again Peter attempted to pour oil upon the troubled waters,
but the can slipped from his grasp and disappeared overboard.

A moment later, the flat-bottomed craft heeled, recovered herself
sluggishly, and slid beneath the waves.




CHAPTER XIII

Wrecked


The shock of being immersed feet foremost in the water, coupled with
the fact that the night was pitch-black, was quickly followed by a
quite unexpected discovery.

The boat had foundered, but a heavy jar proclaimed the fact that she
had "struck soundings" in about three feet of water. Her crew found
themselves standing waist-deep upon the quivering boat as the bottom
boards writhed under their feet in an attempt to float to the
surface--a feat that had been successfully performed by most of the
buoyant gear in the boat.

For some moments neither Peter nor his uncle could grasp the
situation, until Brian Strong shouted: "We're close to shore; come
on, Peter."

"Don't move!" bawled Peter, for conversation at an ordinary pitch
would be inaudible owing to the shriek of the wind. "Don't move. We
may be on a sandbank with deep water all around."

Uncle Brian saw the force of this assertion. It would be a fool's
trick to attempt to swim, since all sense of direction was lost, and
they were still ignorant of how far it was to the nearest land.
Visions of caymans, deadly eels, and other undesirable denizens of
these waters also served as a deterrent, although, standing
waist-deep, the two men were not less liable to attack than had they
been striking out for the shore.

"I'm not at all keen on standing here till daybreak," remarked Uncle
Brian at length. "It's too jolly moist," he added, with a brave
attempt at making light of the situation.

"I'll tell you what I'll do," decided Peter. "There's a coil of rope
under the fore-deck. Pass it aft and I'll secure one end round my
waist. Then I'll go on a voyage of exploration. If the water gets
deeper I'll come back. If it shelves, we'll move along till we find
a better 'ole."

"Better hump, you mean," corrected Brian Strong. "All right, here's
the line. I'll pay out as you go. There ought to be thirty fathoms
of it at least."

Having made his preparations, Peter stepped off. The ground was
quite hard under his feet and clear of weeds. Nevertheless, he
proceeded cautiously, having in mind the possibility of encountering
a cayman or other ferocious inhabitant of the lake.

He had his automatic, but he was doubtful whether it would be
serviceable. The cartridge in the barrel might be effective, since
the ammunition was guaranteed damp-proof; but there was the chance
of the delicate mechanism of the weapon being deranged by its
submersion. Nor was an automatic of much use against a cayman. The
bullet was not powerful enough to penetrate the creature's
armour-plated body; and unless a lucky hit were made in the cayman's
eye or throat, the odds would be against Peter. All the same, the
possession of the automatic gave him a certain degree of confidence
that would have been lacking had he been weaponless.

He had traversed about twenty yards when he encountered a dark
object that well-nigh capsized him. Visions of an electric eel
flashed across his mind. For a moment he floundered panic-stricken,
striving to break away from the object that was clinging tenaciously
to one foot.

Then the real nature of the thing became apparent. It was the
sleeping-bag that Uncle Brian was preparing as a sea-anchor when the
boat sank.

Disengaging the short oar from the bag and using it as a
sounding-pole, Peter resumed his semi-aquatic walk.

If anything, the water was shoaling. Once or twice it was almost up
to his shoulders, but mostly it was only knee-deep and the bottom
level. For another thirty yards he progressed, and then looming
through the darkness he could discern the irregular outlines of a
rocky coast at a distance of about fifty yards.

That was good enough. Retracing his steps, a feat only rendered
possible by the aid of the rope, Peter communicated the result of
his discoveries to Uncle Brian.

During the last half-hour the wind had veered, with the result that
the waves had died down completely--another indication that the lee
shore had obligingly become a weather one.

"How about our gear?" inquired Uncle Brian.

"What has floated is most likely ashore by this time," replied
Peter. "The heavy stuff can stop in the boat till daybreak. We'll
make fast the rope and take the other end with us. That will help us
to find the boat later on."

This suggestion was acted upon, but when Uncle Brian stepped out of
the boat to join Peter in their walk to the land, the bows, relieved
of his weight, appeared above the surface.

"I say!" exclaimed Peter. "She's almost waterborne. It's only the
weight of the engine that's keeping her stern down. We can drag her
with us."

Each man grasped one gunwale. The "orange-box"--that, but for the
shallowness of the water, might have been a coffin--was moved
shorewards with comparative ease, until the gunwales were awash and
the bottom aground. Exerting all their strength, the two men found
it impossible to move her another foot.

"We're here, anyway," declared Uncle Brian, regarding the rocky
shore with feelings of thankfulness.

"We are," agreed Peter grimly.

"And marooned on an island most likely," added his relative. "S'pose
there's nothing for it but to wait till day."

"To work," corrected Peter. "We must get the gear out of the boat.
The rifle will want drying pretty quickly if it's to be of any use.
And the engine too." They set to with a will. The outboard motor was
unclamped and carried ashore, together with the precious parts of
the secret-rays apparatus, the bedding, and provisions. Several
articles that had drifted ashore were also found and placed in a
position of comparative security.

"Now we can get the boat up a bit higher," declared Peter. "If we
can't find the baler we may be able to cant her over and get rid of
the water."

With a lusty "heave-ho!" the waterlogged boat was dragged her own
length nearer the shore, but all attempts to turn her on her side
were unavailing. So they contented themselves by making the boat
fast and leaving her till dawn.

It was a long, dreary vigil. They were without means of making fire,
since their stock of matches was spoilt by the water. Bully beef and
sodden biscuits provided a sorry meal, and the rest of the night was
spent in constantly keeping on the move in order to mitigate the
discomfort of wearing saturated clothing.

By way of contrast to their previous night's camping-ground, the
place was strangely quiet. No roaring of wild animals or splashing
of caymans disturbed the solitude. The wind had died entirely away
and not even a rustle came from the scanty clump of trees, showing
dimly above the brink of the precipitous rock. At last, to the tired
eyes of the weary men appeared a pale pink glow in the eastern sky.
Five minutes later it was quite light, and the comforting beams of
the rising sun were glinting over a distant range of hills.

Peter and his uncle were now able to take stock of their
surroundings. The gravel beach was piled with their water-logged
belongings. A little distance away was the boat with her nose and
one gunwale showing; beyond, the now tranquil lake with the
furthermost shore hidden in a fleecy mist.

They had come ashore in a sort of shallow bay bounded by bluffs of
iron-grey rocks and connected by an irregular wall of granite-like
stone, averaging fifty feet in height.

"The sun will soon dry our gear," said Peter. "We can make a fire by
means of one of the lenses of our binoculars. Suppose we climb up to
the top of the cliff and see where we are?"

"You can," replied Uncle Brian. "I'm as stiff as anything. I'll stop
here and start a fire. Don't forget to take your rifle."

The rifle had already been cleaned as far as Peter was able to do
so; and for lack of suitable oil he had washed out the barrel,
magazine, and mechanism with petrol.

It was a fairly easy ascent, for the cliff face was covered with
horizontal clefts that afforded a secure hold. Nor was the cliff so
steep as it had looked to be in the darkness.

Peter was but little wiser than before when he reached the summit.
The higher ground farther inland prevented any extensive outlook in
that direction; but beyond the projecting bluffs that bounded the
bay the lake was visible on either side. The land upon which they
had been cast was either a wide peninsula or else an island.

Anxious to settle the question, Peter made his way towards the
highest peak, which was about three-quarters of a mile away. It was
easy going, for, with the exception of a few clumps of trees and
patches of thorns, the ground was bare and sunbaked. For the most
part it consisted of lava-like rock mingled with veins of granite,
but here and there were patches of hard mud intersected by fissures
of considerable depth.

The only signs of animal life that Peter saw were a few
vividly-coloured lizards and an animal strongly resembling a hare;
and although he kept a sharp lookout for snakes basking in the now
powerful rays of the sun, none appeared, much to his satisfaction.

When Peter returned to the beach, he found his uncle busily engaged
in making tea. A fire was blazing strongly, and from a tripod
composed of the oars and boat-hook a "billy" hung over the flames.

"It's a jolly good thing we've still got the boat, Uncle," said his
nephew. "I've been to the highest ground about here and we're on an
island."

"Just our luck," rejoined Uncle Brian. "The boat's got a hole in her
as big as my head. But we can discuss that later. Breakfast first."

Without the shadow of a doubt, Uncle Brian had risen to the
occasion. The biscuits were little the worse for their immersion
and, when flavoured with tinned pilchards and bottled tomato soup,
were eaten with gusto. The tea, having been stored in an airtight
case, was in splendid condition, although Peter deplored the fact
that there was no sugar available, and that the condensed milk was
of the unsweetened brand.

The meal over, the two men settled down to serious business. An
examination of the boat confirmed Uncle Brian's statement. Right
amidships was a fairly clean hole about fifteen inches in diameter.
A blanket had, by some means, got underneath the bottom boards and
had become wedged in the hole, with the result that when the two men
had attempted to drag the boat clear of the water, the fabric
prevented a free outlet. Now that the obstruction was removed, it
was a comparatively simple matter to drag the damaged craft well up
on the beach.

"That's one advantage of not having a keel," said Uncle Brian. "We
can patch the hole from the outside."

"We can," replied Peter, "but----"

"But what?"

"Now that there is a gap amidships why not use it to take the
propeller?" suggested Peter. "It would make the old coffin a jolly
sight more seaworthy with that weight transferred from over the
stern to the 'midship section."

Brian Strong regarded his nephew suspiciously. He was wondering
whether Peter was wandering in his mind, or trying to "pull his
leg".

"I mean it," continued Peter.

"Well, what's to keep the water out?"

"This," replied his nephew, indicating a zinc-lined wooden box in
which the provisions had been stored. "Knock out the bottom and
secure the four sides to the bottom of the boat like a square
centre-board case. We'll have to caulk the joints and stiffen the
box with cross bearers to take the strain of the engine."

"Good idea, that," agreed Uncle Brian. "I shouldn't wonder if we get
another one and a half knots out of her. She won't drag her stern
down so much."

"That'll be something to be thankful for," declared Peter. "That
stern of hers is a positive danger. Let's set to work."

On taking stock of the tools at their disposal, they found they
possessed a hatchet, screw-driver, hammer, mallet, and gimlet. There
were also copper nails and a few brass screws.

By about eleven (judging by the sun, for their watches had been
stopped by water penetrating the cases) the box was in position,
being secured by two-inch screws through the bottom of the boat. For
caulking they used unlaid rope soaked in oil, and clay thinned down
with grease. Strips of wood from one of the bottom-boards screwed
together formed strengthening cross-pieces. Altogether they had made
a sound job in a comparatively short time.

"We'll knock off for a bit," said Uncle Brian, wiping the
perspiration from his eyes. "It's too risky to swot in the midday
heat. We'll make another start when it's a bit cooler."

"Right-o," agreed Peter, throwing down his tools with alacrity.
"If----"

He broke off suddenly and pointed.

Brian Strong looked in the direction indicated by his nephew's
outstretched hand. Then he muttered under his breath, for a couple
of miles away was the misty outline of a Rioguayan flying-boat.




CHAPTER XIV

A Change of Locomotion


"Take cover!" exclaimed Peter warningly, at the same time making for
his automatic and ammunition, which were lying on one of the
blankets spread out on the beach.

"Too late, I fancy," replied Brian. "They've spotted us for a dead
cert. We were fools to leave the boat and all this gear strewn over
the sand."

Nevertheless, Uncle Brian grasped the rifle and automatic pistol and
a haversack containing parts of the secret ray invention. Come what
may he was not going to let _that_ fall into the hands of the
Rioguayans.

"Which way?" he inquired.

"Up the cliff," replied Peter. "We may be able to stow ourselves
away before they are sufficiently above us. There's not very much
cover, worse luck."

It was fortunate that Peter Corbold had previously found a way to
the top. Profiting by the experience, uncle and nephew quickly
gained the summit of the cliff.

The flying-boat was now about a mile away, but was shaping a course
that would bring her to the west of the island.

"Don't believe they've spotted us yet," declared Peter. "But they
are bound to see our boat if they start cruising over the island.
Look! What's wrong with that?"

He pointed to a cleft in the face of the cliff about twenty yards to
the left of the spot where they had made the ascent. A closer
acquaintance showed that the hollow was deep and narrow, descending
steeply until it terminated in a natural breastwork about eight feet
above the beach. Although open to the air, the enclosing walls of
rock were sufficiently irregular to cut off direct observation; and
as neither Peter nor his uncle had noticed the cleft from the beach,
it being similar to a dozen others, they were fairly safe in
assuming that they stood a chance of outwitting their pursuers.

They could hear the drone of the motors, but were unable to see the
inquisitive flying-boat. For some minutes the noise continued almost
constant in volume, as if the machine were hovering in the vicinity.
Then the sound grew louder and louder until it ceased abruptly.

Peter knew what that meant. The Rioguayan airmen had discovered
traces of the two Englishmen and were volplaning down to
investigate.

Suddenly the descending aircraft appeared within Peter's limited
field of vision, since by cautiously peering over the breastwork he
could command a view of the beach in the vicinity of the spot where
the two Englishmen had landed.

There was nothing to criticize adversely in the manner in which the
flying-boat alighted on the surface. With hardly a splash the
lightly-built hull took the water. A few revolutions of the for'ard
pair of propellers and the flying-boat "taxied" until she touched
the edge of the sandy beach.

If there had been any doubts in the minds of Peter and his uncle as
to the intentions of the Rioguayan airmen, there was now no
uncertainty on that score.

A couple of men jumped out and secured the gently swaying
flying-boat by means of a grapnel and rope. Then several more leapt
ashore, all fully armed with rifles, revolvers, and _machetes_.
Almost their first act was to smash the little craft which the
Englishmen had only just succeeded in repairing.

The Rioguayans seemed to take a childish delight in their work of
destruction, laughing, yelling, and gesticulating at the thought
that they had run their quarry to its lair and had cut off the
fugitives' means of escape.

Not content with smashing the boat to firewood, they examined every
article that was strewn on the beach, destroying some and passing
the rest into the hull of the flying-boat.

Peter glanced at his uncle and tapped his automatic significantly.
At all events, he thought, since the Rioguayans had deprived them of
a means to leave the barren island, there was no reason why the two
Englishmen shouldn't open a destructive fire upon their now declared
foes. At that short range there was a good chance of killing or
wounding every man in the group on the beach.

Uncle Brian shook his head.

"Wait," he whispered.

Peter felt positively mutinous. To remain inactive was to throw away
their only chance of scoring heavily off their pursuers.

"Why?" he demanded in a low voice.

"They're going to search for us," was the reply.

Brian Strong had the Rioguayan airmen's own words to support his
statement, for amid the babel he managed to overhear one of the men
declare that the Englishmen must be found, and taken prisoners.
These were the Comandante's explicit instructions.

There were now eight of the crew on the beach, all of them arguing
with each other and paying scant heed to the excited shouts of an
officer in the pilot's seat of the flying-boat. At length two of the
crew went on board, reappearing with a long, scraggy dog, whose
chief points were his long drooping ears and lolling tongue. Brian
Strong recognized the breed as a cross between a Cuban bloodhound
and a Brazilian whippet. The dog was carried ashore in spite of its
weight, the apparent reason being that for the purpose for which it
was intended it must not walk through water.

At the sight of the hound Brian felt more ill at ease than he had
since the appearance of the flying-boat. He knew the ferociousness
of the breed and their skill in following the trail of a fugitive.
He almost wished he had fallen in with his nephew's unspoken
suggestion and had tried the moral and physical effect of a sudden
and unexpected burst of automatic pistol firing.

It was too late for that now. The opportunity had passed, for
already some of the men were screened by the intervening wall of
rock.

So Brian watched the movements of the two men with the dog, noting
with considerable apprehension that both fellows, in addition to
their firearms, carried a supply of hand-grenades, which might or
might not be smoke bombs.

Presently they, too, passed out of the Englishmen's arc of vision;
but from auricular evidence, it was plain that they were
experiencing considerable difficulty in persuading the animal to
scale the cliff. But one point was distressingly in evidence; the
hound was already on the trail, since he had indicated the way by
which Uncle Brian and Peter had gained the summit.

It seemed quite a long interval before the baying of the hound
announced that the feat of the ascent was accomplished. Momentarily
the two fugitives expected to hear their pursuers descending the
narrow gorge in which they were concealed, but minutes passed
without their unpleasant expectation being realized.

Gradually the deep notes of the dog, accompanied by the encouraging
shouts of the searchers and the occasional report of firearms, died
away.

"Good business," whispered Peter. "The brute's picked up the wrong
scent. He's following my track where I went this morning."

Which was exactly what the hound was doing, accompanied by the
airmen who were firing at haphazard into every bush they passed, on
the chance of compelling their quarry to abandon a possible place of
concealment.

Peter took another look at the flying-boat. He could see the officer
in charge sitting up in the for'ard cockpit with a rifle laid upon
the decking by his side. There was no one else visible, but in front
of the Rioguayan was an automatic gun somewhat resembling a Colt,
with its muzzle pointing ominously in the direction of the way down
the cliff.

"We'll have to rush the 'bus, Uncle," said Peter in a low voice.
"It's our only chance."

Uncle Brian nodded, and raising the haversack from the ground, slung
it over his shoulder.

"Right," he whispered. "Lead on, but keep a sharp look-out in case
there's a man on guard on the cliff. If there is, no firing if it
can be avoided, mind."

His nephew gave a sign of assent and replaced his automatic, taking
the precaution of leaving the flap of the holster unfastened. Then,
with his uncle close at his heels, he crept cautiously along the
gully, till he arrived at the slightly rugged ground adjoining the
brink of the cliff.

As Peter had expected, there was a sentry posted within ten paces of
him. The fellow had discarded his flying kit, which was not to be
wondered at, seeing that the temperature was somewhere in the region
of 120° F. Evidently taking it for granted that, as his comrades and
the bloodhound had swept the ground in the neighbourhood of his
post, he could "stand easy", he even went so far as to commit the
grave military crime of parting with his rifle, for the weapon was
resting against a rock. His back was turned to the two Englishmen
and--a fact that Peter noted with intense satisfaction--he was
rolling a cigarette.

Like almost every person of Latin descent, the fellow was an adept
at that task, the cigarette when made being almost semicircular as
regards its shape. Then, producing a large box of sulphur matches,
he proceeded to set light to the "smoke".

That was the opportunity which Peter was waiting for. He reckoned on
the sulphurous fumes causing a little discomfort to the smoker, or
at least his attention would be concentrated upon lighting the
cigarette, to his own undoing.

Peter had already counted the men engaged in following the useless
trail. There were seven, strung out in an irregular line, and by
this time quite a quarter of a mile away.

As stealthily as a cat, Peter approached the careless sentry until
he was within a couple of yards of him. Then he sprang.

His love of Rugby football had taught him how to "tackle his man
low". Before the Rioguayan could utter a sound or realize what had
happened, he was lying half dazed upon the ground, with Peter
pinning his arms and Brian Strong pressing the muzzle of an
automatic gently against the fellow's temple.

"Ask him," said Peter, "how many men are on board the flying-boat."

Uncle Brian obliged, backing up his request with a slightly stronger
pressure of the cold ring of the automatic's muzzle.

"The captain and two mechanics," was the tremulous reply.

"That's what I wanted to know," remarked Peter gratuitously. "Now,
Uncle Brian, we'll gag and bind this gentleman, to be left till
called for."

Peter proceeded with the operation so rapidly and deftly that it
left Uncle Brian wondering where his nephew had acquired that
knowledge.

In a very few moments the Rioguayan was trussed like a fowl, his
sash and belt coming in very useful for the purpose.

"Now a cartridge, Uncle Brian," continued his relative. Uncle Brian
handed him one of the rifle cartridges. This Peter wrapped in a
handkerchief.

"Open your mouth, old son," he said.

The "old son", although ignorant of English, obliged instantly. It
was patent that he, too, had had experience in the gentle art of
gagging.

"And that's that," concluded Peter. "Now for the next act of the
matinee. We'll kick off from our hiding-place. It's only an
eight-foot drop to the beach, and a jolly sight quicker than
scrambling down the cliff. I'll take the rifle, please."

Silently and cautiously the two men descended the gully until they
reached the breastwork separating the rift from the beach.

Peter peered cautiously in the direction of the flying-boat.

The Rioguayan captain was still at his post in the pilot's seat. He
was wearing his leather flying-coat but had thrown back the flaps.
He was a swarthy, thick-lipped man with hulking shoulders and a head
set well forward--altogether a brutal type of humanity.

"It's like potting a sitting rabbit," thought Peter, as he slipped a
cartridge into the breech of his rifle. "It's not giving the fellow
a ghost of a chance."

Yet, his compunction notwithstanding, Peter's hands were as steady
and his eye as clear as an experienced hunter's. It was the first
time in his life that he had had a human being covered with a
rifle--but it was the only way.

Deliberately he pressed the trigger. The Rioguayan captain did not
appear to move. Peter was beginning to think that he had missed,
when the man leant forward until his head rested on his arms on the
deck of the fuselage--to all appearances as if he were asleep.

Without hesitation, the Englishmen vaulted over the ledge of rocks
on to the beach and ran towards the flying-boat. They fully expected
to find their way barred by the two mechanics; but the latter had
either not heard the shot, or, if they had, had taken it as one of
the many fired by the searchers on the island.


[Illustration: PETER TACKLES THE SENTRY
                                  _Page_ 126]


Gaining the pilot's cabin, Peter peered down the hatchway into the
engine-room. The place was empty. Hurrying aft, he found the two
mechanics in the motor-room, where the twin engines driving the
after pair of propellers were situated.

At the sight of a couple of automatics thrust down the hatchway both
men raised their arms with commendable celerity.

"Up--you!" ordered Uncle Brian, indicating one of the engineers.

The fellow complied, his olivine features grey with terror.

At Brian Strong's orders, backed up by an indisputable argument in
the shape of a pistol, the man was marched along the alley-way to
the gangway and told to go ashore and bring back the grapnel and
mooring rope. This he did.

"Now," continued Brian sternly, "you can go and stand over there,"
indicating a spot close to the mangled remains of the "orange-box".
"If you shift from there while you are within range of a rifle, you
won't stir more than half a dozen steps. I'm a crack shot.... All
right, Peter. Away as soon as you like."

The remaining mechanic was ordered for'ard to start the motors. For
the present the flying-boat was to be actuated only by the bow
propellers, those aft being required only when proceeding at top
speed.

Then Peter, having lowered the body of his victim to the water, took
his place in the "office". By this time the flying-boat, no longer
tethered by the rope and grapnel, had drifted from the island before
the light offshore wind.

The motors were throbbing tunefully. A forward thrust of one lever
was sufficient to bring both propellers in gear. Like a gigantic
water-fowl, the aerial craft leapt forward, leaving a feathery wake
on the surface of the lake.

When the speed gauge indicated thirty-eight kilometres, Peter
manipulated another lever, and, obedient to the alteration of trim
of her short, cambered planes, the flying-boat soared into her
proper element.

"A 'bus for an orange-box," soliloquized the light-hearted pilot.
"Not a bad exchange, eh what?"




CHAPTER XV

Over the Sierras


Presently Uncle Brian rejoined his nephew. The flying-boat was now
at an altitude of 4000 metres and following the course of the Rio
del Morte.

From the island from which they had made their escape rifle bullets
were singing harmlessly, for the searchers, upon hearing the hum of
the flying-boat's engines, had jumped to the conclusion--a correct
one in this case--that the "English dogs" had scored rather heavily.

"She's well stocked in the food department," reported Uncle Brian,
"and there's plenty of fuel in the tanks. With reasonable luck we'll
cross the Sierras before sunset."

"And then----?"

"Make for Trinidad or Barbadoes," replied Peter's uncle, as he
carefully stowed the haversack containing the secret-rays parts into
a locker. "She'll do that easily. But I've a notion that I'd like to
stop and have a look at the pipe-line between El Toro and Tajeco. We
might be able to cut off the fuel supply to the Rioguayan Air
Fleet."

"Right-o," agreed Peter. "And what about Antonio?"

"Who?" asked his uncle.

"Antonio, our mechanic," explained Peter, indicating the closed
hatchway, underneath which the Rioguayan engineer was quaking and
trembling. "He'll be a bit of a nuisance on board, although he
hasn't the pluck of a mouse. Can't we land him somewhere? Between us
we can manage quite all right."

There was no difficulty in conversation. With the plate glass window
in front of the pilot's seat and the hatch to the motor-room closed,
the compartment was practically cut off, both from external and
internal noises. Except for the muffled pulsations of the motors and
the subdued roar from the propellers, there was little to indicate
that the flying-boat was cutting through the air at eighty-five
miles an hour.

"It's a jolly lucky thing we didn't carry on in the motor-boat,"
remarked Peter. "Look down there."

He pointed to the sinuous course of the river. Even at that height
it was quite easy to see that the Rio del Morte above the lake was
not easily navigable. There were rapids at about every half-mile,
the foaming water showing up distinctly in the strong sunlight. It
was doubtful whether a small boat, or any boat, could force her way
against that furious torrent, rendered even more formidable by the
numerous rocks that split the swiftly-running water into dangerous
cascades.

"Yes," agreed Uncle Brian gravely, "we did the right thing. But
don't forget--more than likely the air station at San Antonio is in
touch with us by means of the magnetic detectors. We've got to bear
in mind the possibility of being pursued."

"But they won't know what has happened," said Peter. "All they know
is that the 'bus is proceeding up-country, following the course of
the river. They would naturally conclude that the original crew are
in pursuit of our late and unlamented 'egg-box'. Until the air
station people get to hear from the fellows we left on the
island--by the by, what will happen to them?"

"That's not our affair now," replied Uncle Brian. "In a few days
another flying-boat will be dispatched to look for them. They've
plenty of water, so they won't be thirsty; and, if they're
hungry--well, there's the hound. In a way, he is responsible for
their present plight."

"Talking of hunger," observed Peter, "isn't it about time we piped
to dinner? I think I heard a suggestion about grub a couple of hours
ago."

His uncle agreed, and went aft to the store and provision room. A
few minutes later, thanks to the stabilizing device that enabled the
flying-boat to hold on her course both as regards altitude and
direction, Peter and Uncle Brian were enjoying a plain but
satisfying meal of the food originally intended for the ill-fated
Rioguayan captain.

Nor was the motor-mechanic neglected, although, when Peter opened
the trap-hatch to pass the food down to him, he cowered and trembled
in a state of utter funk.

"Now," remarked Uncle Brian, after consulting a map, "we ought to be
approaching the scene of preliminary operations. The pipe-line
should be about here, running in a north-west to south-east
direction. It may be overgrown with tropical growth, but I know for
a fact that it was laid on the surface and not buried."

"Bad system, that," observed Peter.

"Yes; but it was for economical reasons," continued his uncle.
"Apparently the Rioguayan authorities never contemplated an attempt
to cut it. We'll do our utmost to prove the fallacy of their belief
in its immunity."

By the aid of binoculars, the track of the huge oil-pipe was
located. So far so good; but there still remained the task of
finding a suitable landing-ground. The flying-boat, although
provided with means for alighting both on the water and on land,
could not reasonably be expected to come to rest on tree-tops
without the almost certain risk of being completely destroyed.

At two hundred metres the aircraft followed the line--until Peter
discovered a possible landing in a clearing about fifty yards from
the Englishman's objective. Here, for the first time since leaving
the island, they saw signs of human habitation--small _adobe_ huts.

"All right, I suppose?" asked Peter.

"Yes, they're Indians in the pay of the Rioguayan Government,"
replied Uncle Brian. "They are paid, I understand, not for the work
they do, but for the damage they don't do--sort of retaining fee,
providing they are good and don't start carving pieces out of the
iron pipe."

"I see," remarked Peter. "Then, as far as we are concerned, they
need not be taken into account. S'pose they won't carve up our
engineer bird when we set him ashore?"

"They will more likely take him down to El Toro and get paid for the
job," said Uncle Brian.

His nephew nodded. He was now engaged upon the task of bringing the
flying-boat to earth, no easy task in a strange 'bus and on a
landing-ground of doubtful quality and very limited extent.

With a succession of slight jolts, the flying-boat was brought to
rest with her nose within ten feet of one of the huts. No Indians
came out to gaze curiously at the wonderful sight, or to beg tobacco
from the crew. They had promptly taken to the bush at the first
distant view of the strange, enormous mechanical bird.

Bolting the hatch over the for'ard motor-room and at the same time
telling the craven Rioguayan that there was nothing to be afraid of,
provided he behaved himself, Peter and Brian Strong removed one of
the fifty-pound bombs from the dropping gear and carried it ashore.
Then, armed with rifles, they transported their bulky load to the
enormous rust-red pipe-line that was raised eight feet above the
ground, stretching miles in either direction, upon which depended
the main kerosene supply to the Rioguayan arsenals and aerodromes.

It was the work of a few minutes to place the bomb close to the pipe
and "tamp" it with earth. In the absence of a time fuse, it was
necessary to detonate the explosive by rifle-fire.

At a safe distance, Peter put bullet after bullet at the target. The
pipe was holed in several places, the oil gushing forth at high
pressure, but it was not until the tenth shot that the desired
result was attained.

There was a deafening crash. To quote Brian Strong's words: "It was
as if the entire contents of an ironmonger's store had been dropped
from the top of a skyscraper". A cloud of dust and smoke rose high
in the air, mingled with fragments of jagged iron. Flames fifty feet
in height shot up from the pipe, spreading far and wide as the
inexhaustible supply of highly inflammable oil poured out in
torrents to add to the work of destruction.

"That's kippered the show," remarked Peter gleefully, as the two
Englishmen retraced their steps to the flying-boat.

The next business was to "pay off" the Rioguayan engineer. He was
given a supply of provisions and a liberal quantity of tobacco and
told to clear out and not to hurry back to San Antonio; while, for
self-protection, he was provided with a rifle and twenty rounds of
ammunition.

"You might have made him start up the motors, Peter," remarked his
uncle, as the mechanic disappeared in the undergrowth.

"Thought I'd try my hand at the job," replied his nephew.

The for'ard pair of motors fired without hesitation, but the after
ones gave a certain amount of trouble. At length, with the four
engines throbbing and out of gear, Peter made his way to the pilot's
seat.

At a steep angle, the flying-boat rose skywards. As she did so, a
rifle bullet "pinged" harmlessly against the light steel armour
plating of the fuselage.

"Ungrateful brute, that mechanic," was Peter's only remark.

Ten minutes later the fiercely burning oil pipe was a mere speck in
the distance. The flying-boat, at an altitude of three thousand
metres, was heading for the distant Sierras, that rose in a
far-flung barrier of irregular projection to a height averaging nine
thousand feet above the sea-level.

The aircraft was flying "all out", her speed, on account of the
rarefaction of the atmosphere, being a little less than 140 miles an
hour.

Peter was in a hurry. It was most desirable that the mountains
should be crossed well before dark. Apart from the risk of crashing
blindly against one of the many almost vertical peaks, there were
the dangerous air-pockets and eddies to be taken into consideration,
and with the setting of the sun, and the consequent rapid cooling of
the earth's surface, the higher altitudes were certain to be
disturbed by raging winds that attain the velocity of a hurricane.

For miles the ground rose steadily. Viewed from a height, the rise
appeared to be gradual, since the smaller irregularities were
apparently flattened out. It was only by judging by the shadows cast
by the sun, which was now well down in the west, that the numerous
valleys and ridges could be noticed.

For the first hundred miles, the country was well wooded. Then came
a wide belt of grass land, gradually merging into an arid waste
absolutely destitute of vegetation. The desert marked the beginning
of the Sierras, which were now plainly visible at a distance of
thirty or forty miles.

"Think she'll do it before dark?" inquired Uncle Brian, glancing at
the sun, now only about thirty degrees above the horizon.

"Rather," replied Peter. "It will be quite light up here after the
low-lying ground is in darkness. Once we're above the peaks I don't
mind. It will be plain sailing after that."

"If you're sure of it, well and good," rejoined Brian. "If not, we'd
better make a landing while it is light." The youthful pilot shook
his head.

"Twelve hours saved is twelve hours gained," he said sagely. "I
don't want to spend another night in Rioguayan territory if it can
be avoided. She'll do it."

Fifteen minutes later, a violent bump announced that the flying-boat
had struck an air-pocket, a clear indication of the adverse
conditions that awaited her above the snowy peaks of the Sierras.
She dropped vertically for nearly a thousand feet in spite of the
pilot's efforts to counteract the sudden loss of "lift". Then
staggering blindly into the furthermost wall of the invisible air
chasm, the flying-boat "stalled" and almost stood on her tail, until
she picked up and Peter was able to bring her back to her normal
trim.

The next five minutes was a perfect nightmare. Above the snowy
crags, now pink in the diffused rays of the setting sun, she sped,
side-slipping, banking, and plunging, as if scorning the desperate
efforts of the pilot to keep her up.

Once she nose-dived, flattened out, and made straight for a sheer
wall of rock that a few seconds previously she ought to have cleared
with a thousand feet to spare. Vainly Peter put the vertical rudders
hard over. It seemed as if a collision was inevitable and that the
shattered debris of the flying-boat would fall headlong into the
fathomless chasm, when a side gust of terrific force hurled her,
like a leaf, crab-fashion, so that she just scraped clear with a few
feet between her port wing-tips and the pitiless face of the peak.

Then, propelled upwards by a freak air-current of irresistible
strength, the flying-boat was hurled, like a sheet of paper up a
tall chimney, between the perpendicular walls of a deep defile. So
near did she scrape the summit of one of the twin peaks, that the
rush of air dislodged a mass of snow, sending it thundering into the
abyss, with a roar plainly audible within the supposedly sound-proof
pilot's cabin.

Suddenly the roseate snow peaks gave place to a void of intense
darkness. The crossing of the Sierras was accomplished. Ahead lay
miles of country, sloping towards the Caribbean Sea, with nothing
higher than three thousand feet to be encountered--at least, so the
map read.

"We're over!" exclaimed Peter thankfully, as the flying-boat settled
down to her normal even style of flight.

"More by luck than by anything else," thought Uncle Brian, who felt
bruised and shaken all over.

"I'll take her down to eight thousand feet," continued Peter
briskly. "Then I'll get you to stand by, Uncle. There's nothing to
be done except to watch the altimeter and the compass. There's no
need to bust along now. We've ten hours of darkness in front of us
and we don't want to find ourselves miles out over the Atlantic when
day breaks. I'll cut out the after motors."

In spite of the fact that the interior of the fuselage was heated by
pipes connected with the exhausts, the air within the cabins was
bitterly cold, and the temperature fell yet lower after the rear
pair of motors was shut down.

Peter was now feeling very sleepy. Lack of proper rest, the
excitement of the last two days, and the effect of the rarefied
atmosphere all combined to reduce him to a state of resistless
drowsiness.

"You turn in," said his uncle peremptorily. "I'm good for another
ten hours, if needs must. If there's anything requiring your
attention, I'll wake you."

The elder man "took on". Since the flying-boat was built largely
after his designs, he was well acquainted with the technical part of
the mechanism and construction, but he was quite a novice in the art
of actual flight. As long as things went right, there was little for
him to do.

Peter, wrapped in half a dozen blankets in addition to a leather
flying-coat, was soon sound asleep in spite of the low temperature.

He had not slept for more than ten minutes when his uncle roused
him.

"She's faltering--both engines," announced Uncle Brian laconically.

Peter rose stiffly to his feet. He had not the trained ear for
mechanism that his uncle possessed, and as far as he could hear, the
motors were still keeping up their rhythmic purr.

"Look at the gauge of the main fuel tank," suggested Uncle Brian.

His nephew picked up an electric torch and made his way to the
'midship compartment. He went sceptically enough, but on consulting
the indicator, the state of the gauge fairly startled him. It stood
at zero.

That meant that only one of the auxiliary tanks contained any
kerosene, and owing to its position was useless unless the
flying-boat was diving steeply or in an inverted position while
"looping".

The tanks were three-quarters full when the flying-boat had passed
out of Rioguayan control; and since only a few hours had elapsed, it
was a matter of impossibility for the four motors even running all
out to "mop up" anything like the quantity that had gone somewhere.

A hasty examination revealed the cause of the leakage. A drain-cock
was half open, allowing a steady stream of kerosene to flow into
space. At first thoughts, Peter attributed the leakage to the
Rioguayan mechanic, until he remembered that the fellow had been
locked up when left alone on board.

But there was little time for speculation.

Hastening back to the control compartment, Peter found that the
for'ard motors were now firing spasmodically. In a few moments they
would cease functioning for lack of fuel, and then there was nothing
to keep the flying-boat from descending with fair rapidity. Her
weight and relatively small plane-area were against her for
prolonged gliding.

He touched his uncle on the shoulder and motioned him away from the
controls.

"Luck's out this time," he said grimly. "It's a thundering big drop
in the dark."




CHAPTER XVI

"Crashed"


Peter had barely resumed charge, when the motors coughed and
stopped. A deadly silence succeeded the purr of the engines, since
the rush of air past the metal planes was inaudible within the
sound-proof compartment.

It was the pilot's chief concern to keep the flying-boat up as long
as possible. It was entirely beyond reason to suppose that the
gliding would be prolonged till dawn, but the longer the aircraft
kept up the better, since there would be more time to make
preparations for the forced landing.

Planing as nearly in a horizontal direction as possible for two
minutes, was followed by a short steep rise until the flying-boat
seemed in danger of "stalling". This manoeuvre Peter repeated,
knowing that for every hundred feet of vertical drop he could knock
off twenty or more by the sudden leap against gravity.

For quite twenty minutes he held on, his hand dexterously
manipulating the controls, while his eyes never left the altimeter
and speed-indicator.

Meanwhile, Brian Strong was busy. Realizing that perhaps the
flying-boat might be able to land on fairly even ground, he set
about to prepare the electric head-lamp which could be trained in a
vertical arc of fifteen degrees--enough to illuminate a sufficient
length of ground before the machine came in contact with _terra
firma_.

The searchlight was of the accumulator type. According to
instructions issued to the Rioguayan airmen the batteries were to be
kept fully charged; but when Brian tested the circuits he found that
the accumulators had completely run down.

There remained the secondary head-lamp--a three-hundred candle-power
acetylene-generated light.

Hoping against hope that this apparatus was in working order, Brian
unfastened the lid of the generator. The acetylene chamber was full
of perfectly dry carbide, but the water compartment was empty.

"How long can you give me?" asked Uncle Brian.

"Five minutes--ten, with luck," was the reply.

Hurrying to the water-tank, Brian turned the tap. There was no flow.

"Has every tank in this confounded contraption run dry?" demanded
Brian. Then the solution of the mystery dawned upon him. The water
in the tank was frozen into a solid block.

Had the motors been water-cooled a way out of the difficulty would
have been simple; but being air-cooled no help was forthcoming from
them.

Seizing a spanner, Uncle Brian vigorously attacked the six nuts
securing the circular plate on the top of the water-tank. The cover
removed, he hacked at the ice until he was able to gather a double
handful of chips of frozen water. These he placed in a can and held
them over the still warm cylinders of one of the motors until the
vessel contained about a pint of fluid.

"Look sharp!" shouted Peter. "We can't be much more than a thousand
feet up."

Working feverishly, Brian poured the water into the generator,
turned on the needle-valve to its fullest extent, and applied a
match to the triple fish-tail burners. With a mild explosion the gas
ignited, and the powerful beam flashed out into the night.

"Good heavens!" exclaimed Peter, aghast, for the bright white light
was playing on a solid substance less than four hundred yards
away--the steeply rising face of a formidable mountain peak. Only a
few seconds separated the flying-boat from an end-on crash.

Putting the vertical rudders hard over, Peter literally jerked the
machine round, tilting her to an angle of nearly sixty degrees as he
did so.

Unprepared, Uncle Brian lost his balance and fell violently against
the lee-side of the compartment. Before he could regain his feet,
the flying-boat pancaked and crashed.

Peter had a brief vision of the nose crumpling up and the
under-carriage being forced through the steel floor of the fuselage.
Then the long slender body rose until the tail was almost vertical.
The pilot, hurled against the instrument-board, lost all interest in
the immediately subsequent proceedings.

Brian Strong came off fairly lightly.

Owing to the circumstance that he was lying inertly upon the
floor--for after his first attempt to rise he had philosophically
abandoned further effort--he had escaped being flung headlong
against the bulkhead. As it was, he found himself lying on the
ground with wreckage on either side of him--while within two yards
of his feet were the remains of the acetylene head-light, with a
flare of vivid white light leaping twenty feet into the air.

"Never did think much of those acetylene lamps," he remarked to
himself, and tried to puzzle out by what means he found himself
where he was.

It was indeed fortunate that the fuel supply of the
flying-boat--there were about twenty gallons in the lowermost
tank--was non-inflammable when released from pressure; had it been
ordinary petrol the wreckage would have been a mass of molten metal
and the two airmen would have been burnt to ashes.

Still muttering incoherently, Uncle Brian sat up and rubbed his head
vigorously.

"Where am I?" he demanded.

He dug his hands into the ground. It was fine sand. He sniffed at
it, half expecting to find it salt like the sand of the seashore.

Still puzzled, he watched the strongly-burning acetylene until the
glare was too much for his eyes. He turned his head, but was unable
to discern a single object.

Then he crawled, like a stricken animal, away from the light, until
a mass of twisted steel plating impeded his progress.

"There's been a most unholy smash," he declared solemnly.

Gradually coherent reasoning returned to him. Strangely enough he
completely forgot that Peter had been with him in the crash. His
chief thoughts were for the safety of the essential parts of the
secret-ray apparatus. Those placed in a locker in the flying-boat
were probably smashed, but there remained the most important object
of all--the delicate valve which he had hidden in an empty cartridge
case.

Almost feverishly he tore open his leather greatcoat and felt for
the cartridge-belt that had been his constant companion from the
time he left El Toro. With trembling fingers he extracted the small
glass phial and held it up to the light. Then he gave a gulp of
relief and satisfaction. The delicate filament and the minute and
complex mechanism were intact.

"Hello, Uncle! Taking a blood test?"

Brian Strong turned at the sound of the well-known voice. Walking
unsteadily towards him was Peter Corbold.

His nephew was still wearing his flying-coat and helmet, which he
had put on merely for the sake of warmth. The coat was rent in half
a dozen places, while the left side of his face was red with blood
welling from a cut on the forehead.

Peter's period of insensibility had been of short duration, Thrown
clear of the wreckage after his impact with the instrument-board, he
had got off with a nasty bruise on the forehead. The padded helmet
had saved his skull from being fractured, but the blow had been
sufficient to cause the blood to flow freely. His head was whirling,
he felt horribly sick and as weak as a kitten, yet he could not
repress a facetious remark upon seeing his relative so absorbed in
his precious invention.

"We're here," continued Peter. "But where, goodness only knows.
What's your damage, Uncle Brian? Wasn't it a jolly old crash? It
reminds me of a song we used to yell in the gun-room of the old
_Baffin_: 'She bumped as she'd never bumped before.'"

"And never will again," added Uncle Brian with emphasis. "What's to
be done now?"

"Sleep till the morning," replied the practical Peter. "My head's
buzzing like a top. There's a chunk of the old 'bus that will make
quite a decent bunk. I vote we turn in."

Eight hours later Peter awoke to find the sun shining brightly. His
headache had vanished and--good sign--he felt ravenously and
healthily hungry.

Uncle Brian was still sleeping soundly. Peter let him sleep. It
would give him an opportunity to take stock of the locality.

Throwing off his blankets and greatcoat, for the heat of the sun was
oppressive, Peter emerged from his retreat and stood blinking in
amazement in the dazzling light--sheer amazement at their marvellous
escape.

The wrecked flying-boat was practically in the centre of a circular
patch of sand and gravel about three-quarters of a mile in diameter.
On all sides rose rugged mountains with precipitous faces in places
rising sheer to a height of at least two thousand feet.

The plain was almost dead level and absolutely destitute of verdure.
No sign of life was visible. The flying-boat had struck a snag in
the form of a mass of rock about four feet in height and less than a
couple of yards in circumference. Otherwise, the sandy waste was
free from irregularities. It would have been an ideal
landing-ground, for the sand was fairly hard; and it was certainly a
case of sheer hard luck that the machine should have wrecked herself
on the only dangerous bit of ground in the extensive circle.

On the other hand, it was a rare slice of good fortune that had
accompanied the flying-boat on her downward glide. She must have
skimmed the summit of the encircling mountains with but a few feet
to spare. In the darkness Peter had been in entire ignorance of the
danger. Equally fortunate was the fact that the timely lighting of
the acetylene head-lamp had enabled the pilot to escape crashing
nose-on against the opposite wall of the huge basin of natural
stone.

"We're here," decided Peter grimly. "We're here; but goodness only
knows how we are going to get out. It's been a fine old smash-up.
However, there's some consolation: the Rioguayan air fleet has lost
one unit."

So severe had been the impact that both of the for'ard motors had
broken away and lay quite fifteen yards from the crumpled bows. The
after portion of the fuselage had broken off short, forming with the
buckled 'midship part an irregular, inverted "V". Four of the
subsidiary fuel tanks had completely parted company with the hull,
while the steel water-tank had burst from its securing bonds and now
rested bottom upwards upon the sand. The tank was practically
intact, but, since Uncle Brian had not had time to replace the cover
after chipping the ice, the precious contents had drained into the
parched ground. The outstanding feature was the sight of the two
rear propellers, both intact, standing up like flaming crosses as
the sunlight glinted upon the polished metal blades.

"And we're a long way from the sea," exclaimed Peter aloud.

"Did I hear anyone say 'tea'?" inquired Uncle Brian, from the depths
of his temporary sleeping compartment. "If so, many thanks."

"You didn't," replied his nephew. "There's nothing doin' in that
line, I'm afraid. No water to be had."

"That's a rotten look-out," said Uncle Brian, as he emerged from his
retreat. With his bruised features, torn clothing, and staggering
gait, he looked more like a dissipated tramp than an engineering
expert.

He glanced at the debris, then at the mountain barrier.

"The old horse jibbed at that fence, Peter," he added. "It'll mean
padding the hoof for us, I fancy. Any grub going?"

Scrambling over a litter of steel sheets, Peter dived into the
debris that remained of the 'midship part of the flying-boat. After
hunting about for some time, he discovered the oddly assorted
contents of the provision-room. He managed to rescue a couple of
tins of pressed beef, a loaf made of maize, and a bottle of soda
water--the sole survivor of nearly four dozen.

"Enough here for the present," he announced, as he crawled out. "We
shan't starve if we can carry enough away with us."

The frugal meal was eaten in silence. Uncle Brian produced a spirit
flask, half filled with brandy. Pouring about a couple of
tablespoonfuls of soda water into the metal cup, he handed it to his
companion.

"Your liquid ration, Peter," he said solemnly. "We'll have to make
it last out till we find water."




CHAPTER XVII

The Passage Perilous


No time was lost in making preparations for the long trek. Each man
had to carry as much as he possibly could without impeding his
movements. Uncle Brian took the remaining parts of the secret-ray
apparatus, which he discovered lying in the sand undamaged and still
in the haversack. The rest of his load consisted of a rifle and
ammunition, a blanket and waterproof sheet, and about ten pounds of
foodstuffs. Peter loaded himself up with his sleeping-bag, twenty
pounds of provisions, the liquid compass from the flying-boat, a
coil of light line, his automatic, matches, and--in anticipation of
finding water--an empty water-bottle with slings attached.

"We shan't have to do very much climbing to get out of this,"
declared Uncle Brian. "And I shall be very disappointed if we don't
find water within an hour or two. At one time this place was a
mountain lake. The water has drained away--where? Not through the
sand, because it's a certainty that the bed of the lake was hard
rock similar to the surrounding mountains. It flowed away through a
canyon. If we find the canyon we find our way of escape."

Peter agreed, but up to the present there was not the slightest
visible sign of a gorge. The enclosing wall of rock seemed
continuous, without a rift lower than five hundred feet above the
plain.

Progress was slow. The sand, although tolerably firm, was hard
going. The heat of the sun, coupled with the weight of their
burdens, distressed both men severely.

Presently they came to a shallow depression resembling a North
American gulch or a South African drift, only bone-dry. At one time
it had been a watercourse. The bed was littered with small stones.

Uncle Brian stooped, picked up one of the rough pebbles, and
examined it.

"Would you like to be rich beyond the dreams of avarice, Peter?" he
asked. "If so, load up. These are rough diamonds."

His nephew looked incredulous. He half suspected that the sun,
following the concussion of the crash, had affected his uncle's
brain.

"Fact," continued Brian Strong. "The quantity of diamonds here would
make the De Beer's reserve look silly in comparison. We'll take a
few--just a few--to support our statement, should we be lucky enough
to come through. Personally, I'd rather have a pint of pure water at
the present time.... Enough, Peter! Don't sacrifice mobility to
cupidity. Later on, perhaps."

In his present state of mind, Peter, once he was convinced of the
sincerity of his uncle's announcement, was not greatly impressed by
the magnitude of the discovery. The mere fact that untold wealth lay
at his feet was as nothing compared with his anxiety to get clear of
the mountain-enclosed arena. He hardly doubted his ability to find a
way out; but it was the long and tedious tramp that rather appalled
him. The change from speedy flying to a trudge afoot at two and a
half miles an hour, when time was of the utmost importance, was a
disconcerting prospect.

"There's an outlet," declared Uncle Brian, pointing to a bluff that
even at a short distance merged into the sombre greyness of the
mountainous wall. "We'll find a gorge close to it."

"Let's hope so," added Peter.

"There must be some egress," continued Uncle Brian. "At some
time--centuries ago--when this place was a lake--the overflow
escaped in a northerly direction. Why? Because to the south'ard are
the Sierras, which form a watershed between Rioguay and Venezuelan
territory. For some reason--an earthquake, most likely--the feeders
dried up or were diverted. Consequently, the lake ran dry. Yes, here
we are."

The cleft was so narrow that there was barely room for the two men
to walk abreast. The walls, up to a height of thirty feet, were
quite smooth, bearing evidence of the friction of sand and water for
countless ages. Above that height they were rugged and irregular, so
that in many places the sky was completely shut out from view.

For nearly a hundred yards they progressed with tolerable ease. Then
the gorge contracted to such an extent that Peter's broad shoulders
were rubbing against either wall. Once or twice he had to turn
sideways and drag his pack after him.

"Hope it isn't going to be a blind alley!" he exclaimed.

"Never fear," declared Uncle Brian encouragingly. "The floor is on
the down-grade all the time. That's a sure indication that----"

"We're done this trip!" interrupted his nephew. "There's been a fall
of rock."

In the subdued light the defile appeared to terminate abruptly in a
barrier of enormous stones, some of which must have weighed at least
a thousand tons, rising to quite seventy feet.

"Fallen recently," commented Peter. "By Jove! If there's another
smash-up, we'll either be flattened out, or trapped. Let's go back!"

Uncle Brian deliberately unburdened himself of his load.

"Let me get past you," he said. "Before we talk of going back, I'll
make a brief examination. H'm, yes! Recent fall, eh? You're wrong,
Peter. That mass of rock probably subsided a thousand years ago. The
dryness of the atmosphere accounts for the fresh-looking stone."

"Possibly," rejoined Peter, "but that isn't of much consequence to
us, is it? It doesn't make our job any easier. I might be able to
scramble up and lower the rope for you."

"No climbing for me, thank you," replied his uncle. "I'm going to
crawl under."

He pointed to a small cavity, barely two feet in height and
triangular in section, between two masses of stone inclined one to
the other.

"You can't possibly," began Peter.

"Can't I?" retorted his uncle. "Wait till we shift some of the sand.
It may be ten feet deep, but it has accumulated since this rock
fell. The stone is quite smooth.... Just come here a minute and
kneel down. I fancied I saw daylight; do you?"

Peter looked through the narrow tunnel. Sure enough, at about fifty
feet away, he could discern the farther end of the horizontal shaft.

"No need to dig," he declared. "Stand by. I'll crawl through and pay
out the rope."

It was a nerve-racking experience. Notwithstanding Uncle Brian's
assurance as to the well-established nature of the barrier, Peter
was haunted by the dread that the wall of the tunnel might subside;
and when about half-way through, he had grave doubts whether he
could wriggle past a particularly narrow section. At any rate, there
he was. He could not turn to crawl back. He simply had to go on, or
get stuck.

With his heart figuratively in his mouth, the perspiration pouring
down his face, his hands and knees raw with the friction of the
sand, Peter continued his way, turning on his side in order to
negotiate a couple of narrow places where the rocks protruded.

"Worse than the double bottoms of a battleship, any old time," he
soliloquized. "Now, if I butt into a particularly venomous snake at
the far end--that will be the limit!"

At length Peter emerged from the tunnel, rose to his feet, and drew
in a copious draught of fresh air.

"Through!" he shouted.

"Right-o!" sang out his uncle. "Steady on while I finish with the
gear.... Now then, haul away!"

Peter began to haul in the line. It was heavy work, for at the other
end was attached the baggage belonging to both men, Brian Strong's
haversack with its precious contents being secured for safety within
the folds of the blankets and sleeping-bag.

"Good thing the rope's new," thought Peter, carefully coiling away
the line as he hauled it in. "If it did part half-way through
there'd be a fine old lash-up!"

Presently an increased tension of the rope announced that the load
was passing the narrowest part of the tunnel, which was about
fifteen feet from the end. Then there was a sudden jam. Something
had fouled, and the whole of the gear was wedged tightly, forming a
formidable barrier between Peter and his relative.

In vain the former heaved and hauled. He could hear Uncle Brian
plaintively inquiring when he would be able to crawl through.

"There's no help for it," decided Peter. "I'll have to go in again
and clear the lash-up."

He did not relish the task, but it had to be done. The journey
through had been bad enough, but now, although the distance was much
shorter, he was additionally hampered by the fact that he was
working in utter darkness and that the baggage, filling the height
and breadth of the tunnel, considerably interfered with the air
supply.

Peter realized the possibility of having to cast off the rope and
remove each bundle separately--a task entailing at least half a
dozen trips into the shaft.

Fortunately this was spared him; for on feeling cautiously, he
discovered the cause of the "block". The rifle had come unhitched
and, swinging round until the muzzle caught the projecting rock, had
jammed the whole contraption. It was a fairly simple matter to
release the rifle and drag it into the open. Then the rest of the
gear was hauled out with comparative ease.

"All clear," shouted Peter again.

Brian Strong made the passage quickly and easily. As a mining
engineer, he was used to crawling through narrow passages. Had it
been a case of making their way aloft to the fire-control platform
of a battleship in a heavy sea-way, Peter would have won easily; but
as a tunnel crawler, he admitted unhesitatingly that he did not
shine.

For the next mile, it was fairly easy going. The floor of the ravine
was wider, but the height of the walls correspondingly higher. Here
and there were pieces of rock that had become dislodged and had
fallen, half buried in the sand. Once a stone as big as a man's head
came hurtling down within twenty paces of them.

The end of the chasm was now in sight, but they were not yet out of
danger or difficulty. At about four hundred yards from the end their
progress was arrested by a single slab of rock about ten feet in
height that completely obstructed the passage.

This time there was no tunnel. The only way was to climb over.

"I'll give you a leg up, Uncle," suggested Peter. "Then I'll send up
the gear and swarm up by the rope."

He took up his stand close to the rock and was about to bend down to
enable Uncle Brian to clamber on his back, when his boot came in
contact with something hard, buried a few inches under the sand. As
he trod on it, it gave with a rasping sound.

"Hello!" he exclaimed. "What's this?"

With the toe of his boot, he pushed aside the covering layer of
sand, revealing a rusty breast-plate. Grasping the metal, he pulled
it up. It came quite easily, disclosing a number of human bones
lying on the backpiece of a suit of mail. A short distance away was
a steel morion, together with fragments of a skull.

The discovery roused Peter's interest far more than had the sight of
the diamond-studded sand.

"We're not the first people to find the gorge," he remarked. "How
old is this, do you think, Uncle?"

"Seventeenth century or late sixteenth," replied Brian Strong. "The
lace-holes in the breast-plate prove that. A Spaniard, I should
imagine. He was crushed by the rock. I don't suppose he was alone.
We may have walked over the bodies of his comrades buried underneath
the sand."

"It would be interesting to know----" began Peter, then he broke off
suddenly, adding, "Come on, let's get clear of this rotten hole as
fast as we can."

Half an hour later, they emerged from the canyon. Ahead stretched a
seemingly endless expanse of trackless forest; behind them, the
mountains.

"There's bound to be water down there," said Brian. "And if there's
water, there's a stream. The stream becomes a river, and the river
flows into the sea--in our case, the Caribbean. We'll have to skirt
the fringe of the forest until we strike a stream."

This reasoning proved to be sound. It was not long before they came
across a small rivulet gushing from the hillside.

This they followed, noting with satisfaction that it grew steadily
in volume. For four days they kept to one of its banks, sometimes
cutting a way through dense undergrowth, at others wading in the
clear shallow stream. Wild animals they neither heard nor saw.
Several times they had narrow escapes from poisonous reptiles. At
night they were tormented by mosquitoes; by day they were almost
knocked out by the moist, enervating heat. Their clothing was in
rags, their boots cut almost to ribbons.

Yet they held doggedly on their way, living on short rations and
sustained by the hope that every step brought them nearer to the
sea, though there were no signs of approaching the outskirts of the
forest.

On the fifth day, both men felt utterly done up. Too exhausted even
to speak, they plodded on, until their progress was arrested by the
stream flowing into a wide river, literally alive with caymans.

"Voices!" exclaimed Peter.

Both men listened intently.

Brian Strong shook his head.

"Imagination!" he replied briefly.

"'Fraid you're right," rejoined his companion disconsolately, but
seized with an inspiration, he drew his automatic and fired two
shots into the air.

A few minutes later, a dug-out canoe, manned by a dozen Indians,
appeared round the bend of the river.




CHAPTER XVIII

Orders for Cavendish


"Commander wishes to see you, sir!" Sub-lieutenant Havelock de Vere
Cavendish--affectionately known to his brother-officers as "Weeds"
and known to have answered readily to the sobriquet
"Plug"--acknowledged the marine orderly's announcement.

Cavendish was in a shore-billet--the Royal Naval Barracks at
Portsmouth--having just completed a gunnery course at Whale Island.
He was speculating upon what manner of craft his next ship would be.
He rather fancied a destroyer, but would have been in no way
surprised or disappointed if he were appointed to a light cruiser.
He was not particularly keen on a battleship. That meant a two-years
commission either in home waters or in the Mediterranean--and
already, in his comparatively brief career, he had seen enough of
Malta and Gib. to express a wish never to see either place again.

Life on a battleship in peace-time, he reflected, was apt to savour
of boredom; on a destroyer there were discomforts, but on the whole
there were compensations. It gave a fellow a chance to do something
that would be impossible on a capital ship. A sub on a destroyer was
a responsible person; on a battleship, he was one of a crowd.

For another reason, he was not altogether certain that he had done
well in the gunnery course; but he _did_ know that he had obtained a
"first" in the torpedo course.

Cavendish unshipped his legs from the messroom fender, threw the
morning's paper on the settee, and, after exchanging a jest with
some of the other occupants, made his way to the commander's office.

The marine orderly had given no indication of the reason for the
interview. It was more than likely that he did not know. That left
Cavendish speculating as to the possible reason for the "Bloke's"
wish to see him. As far as he knew, there was nothing "up against"
him.

Discreetly he knocked at the door of the commander's private room.

Commander Broadstairs was a typical officer of the present-day
navy--clean-shaven, alert both physically and mentally, and with a
certain brusqueness of manner that at times might be mistaken for
churlishness. On the quarter-deck, he would reduce a truculent
defaulter to a state of panic by a mere look. On duty he was a
living example of discipline and order, both spelt with a capital
letter. He knew by heart the whole of the "Sailors' Bible"--the
Admiralty Instructions. It was said that the men feared him more
than they did the Commodore.

But when off duty, Commander Broadstairs' mantle of routine was
shed. He was just an ordinary, jovial fellow--a gentleman in the
truest sense of the word. His popularity was not of his own seeking;
it was acquired simply by his personality.

"Come in!" he shouted breezily. "Ah, there you are, Mr. Cavendish.
Take a seat."

He waved his hand in the direction of an arm-chair by the side of
his large knee-hole desk.

The Sub sat down promptly enough. The fact that he, a very junior
officer, had not been kept standing at attention, indicated the
nature of the forthcoming interview. Probably it concerned the
garrison sports, or the united services boxing tournament.

But Cavendish was well out of his reckoning.

"The Commodore has asked me to select a certain number of officers
for a particular service," began the Commander. "It occurred to me
that for various reasons you would be a suitable candidate. It is,
of course, optional whether you accept or otherwise, since it is a
matter requiring great discretion and involving a certain amount of
risk, not to say danger."

The "Bloke" paused and fixed his eyes upon the young officer.

"Near East, for a dead cert," thought Cavendish, then aloud he said,
"I'm quite ready, sir."

"You'd better wait until you've learnt more of the nature of the
operations," resumed the Commander, with a wry smile. "Let me see;
you served a commission in the South American station, I believe?"

"Yes, sir; midshipman on the _Cyclex_ in 1921-2."

"You know the approaches to Bahia? And San Luiz? And Macapa? Good.
Now, describe the anchorage off Port of Spain."

"Weeds" did so, evidently to the Commander's satisfaction.

"Do you know anything of the Rio Guaya?" continued his inquirer.

"No, sir," replied Cavendish promptly. "We never put in there during
the whole of the commission. But----"

He paused, thinking that what he was about to say was irrelevant.

"But what?"

"I know a fellow living out in Rioguay, sir. An old shipmate of
mine. He went on the beach from the _Baffin_."

"Name?"

"Peter Corbold, sir."

"H'm; name's familiar. Do you ever hear from him?"

"I had one letter, sir. I answered it--but I haven't heard since."

"What's he doing out there?"

"Mining engineering, I think, sir. He mentioned an uncle in the same
profession who had been in Rioguay for some time."

The Commander started on another tack.

"The Admiralty have issued orders for the _Cynesephon_ to be brought
forward for commissioning," he announced.

Cavendish sat bolt upright in the chair. Now he was beginning to
grasp the drift of things. Hitherto, he had been groping blindly,
trying to piece together the baffling questions which the Commander
had put to him, in a vain endeavour to discover the nature of the
hazardous duty hinted at.

He knew the _Cynesephon_. She was one of the "P" boats that in 1918
had been converted into a "Q" ship and altered to resemble a South
American freighter. She was supposed to be the last word in mystery
ships, but an opportunity to use her never arrived, owing to the
Armistice.

For certain reasons she had not been scrapped. She was now lying in
one of the basins at Portsmouth Dockyard, snugly moored between two
battleships of the _Thunderer_ class, which were permanently out of
commission.

And now the _Cynesephon_ was to be rescued from the scrap heap and
reconditioned--why?

Putting two and two together--the commissioning of the _Cynesephon_
and the Commander's inquiries about Cavendish's service on the South
American station--the Sub made a shrewd guess.

For several days there had been reports of British ships bound to
and from Brazilian and Argentine ports being overdue. Several of
them had been posted at Lloyd's as missing. At first, the general
public hardly noticed the information, and until the Press gave
prominence to the matter, few people outside the shipping circles
had any idea of the persistent increase of the list of vessels
overdue.

Then sprang up the usual crop of rumours--a pirate in the South
Atlantic providing the favourite topic. Vessels of all nationalities
had cleared South American ports and had made their various
destinations. None of the masters had reported falling in with a
suspicious craft; but it was an ominous fact that, without
exception, the overdue vessels had sailed under the Red Ensign.

A question was raised in the House concerning the mysterious
disappearance of so many ships, to which the First Lord made a reply
that the Admiralty were considering the matter, but did not feel
justified in sending H.M. ships, which were urgently required
elsewhere, to investigate.

That reply was a "blind". Already orders had been issued for the
secret commissioning of the _Cynesephon_ and the dispatch of the
light cruiser _Basilikon_ and the 35-knot destroyers _Messines_ and
_Armentières_ to the West Indies.

"It is in connection with the missing merchantmen, sir?" asked
Cavendish.

"You are right on the target, Mr. Cavendish," said the Commander.
"It is. The _Cynesephon_ is to be fully manned by naval ratings, but
the crew have to be disguised as merchant seamen. I need not
emphasize the fact that this information is absolutely confidential.
She will be detailed to cruise between Rio and Port of Spain in the
hope that she will be mistaken for a cargo-boat. That is acting upon
the supposition that there is a piratical vessel out. Personally, I
think that some obscure South American republic has run _amok_. A
light cruiser and a couple of destroyers will be within a hundred
miles of the decoy ship, but you will understand that they will only
be called to the _Cynesephon's_ assistance if she is in immediate
danger of foundering. There is a great chance of her being sunk with
all hands before the supporting vessels can arrive on the spot. Now,
I think I've hinted enough for you to realize the nature of the
operations. Are you a volunteer?"

"I am, sir," was the ready response.

"I thought so," rejoined the Commander. "Here are the names of your
new skipper and the officers who have already volunteered. You know
most of them, I believe. Well, that's that. Use the greatest
discretion. Remember, a chance word may wreck the whole business.
And I don't think I'd write to Corbold again if I were you--at
least, until you return."

The Commander held out his hand. Fifteen seconds later
Sub-lieutenant Cavendish stood in the corridor, hardly able to
realize his good fortune.




CHAPTER XIX

The Decoy Ship


That same afternoon, Sub-lieutenant Cavendish went on leave. That
was the official version given out to his messmates. They saw him
depart in a taxi, rigged out in mufti and with a prodigious amount
of "kit" that suggested a "tidy drop o' leaf". Cavendish's home was
in the Midlands, within a few miles of Grantham--but that was not
his objective. Two hours later, he put up at a modest hotel in
Southampton, patronized almost exclusively by Master Mariners of the
Mercantile Marine.

The next day he joined the S.S. _Complex_ at Southampton Docks as
Third Officer.

The _Complex_ was a tramp of 570 tons displacement, belonging to the
port of Grimsby, if the information painted on her stern were
correct. She was 230 feet in length. She had the usual raised
fo'c'sle and poop, with deckhouses and bridge amidships just for'ard
of her solitary funnel. Her fore- and mainmasts were of the "pole"
type, with the customary appendages in the shape of derricks.

She was under orders for Buenos Ayres with a cargo consisting
principally of cork.

The tramp resembled her kind in the matter of paint. Her sides were
supposed to be black, but there were several irregular patches of
red-lead, and broad streaks of iron rust. Her crew, rigged out in
nondescript garments, were still stowing cargo. She had raised steam
and the Blue Peter fluttered from the foremast head.

But, although her topsides were disreputable, the same could not be
said of her hull below the waterline. The bottom had recently been
coated with dull-grey anti-fouling composition, her owners being
evidently of the opinion that it was false economy to pay for extra
fuel simply to drive a barnacle-encrusted hull through the water.

Checking an almost irresistible impulse to salute the quarter-deck
as he came over the gangway, Cavendish went aft to report to the
"Old Man", who was standing at the head of the poop-ladder, rigged
out in blue cloth trousers, waistcoat with tarnished brass buttons,
and a cap bearing a salt-stained badge of a well-known shipping
firm, perched awry on his close-cropped head. He was in his shirt
sleeves. A very seasoned black briar pipe was between his strong,
even teeth.

"Hello, Weeds!" exclaimed the Old Man; "so you fetched here all
right? You'll find Seton and Carr down below. They'll tell you where
your cabin is. 'Fraid you won't find it very ship-shape, old thing."

A sailor came slouching aft.

"Beg pardon, sir!" he announced with a pukka naval salute. "There's
a Board of Trade chap come to see you."

Captain Meredith gave a gesture of annoyance. It was decidedly
unhealthy to have too many officious shore-people on board.

"All right," he replied. "And look here, Johnson, can't you remember
not to give salutes? Or must I send you back to the Depot?"

The man grinned and went off.

"That's one of my hardest jobs," commented the Old Man. "Trying to
make an A.B. forget what has been drilled into him from the first
day he joined at Shotley. And look here, Weeds, you're not a credit
to the ship. Your rig-out is just a trifle too smart and too new.
Try toning it down with a little tar."

Captain Meredith hurried off to interview the Board of Trade
Inspector, leaving Cavendish to his own resources on the deck of the
S.S. _Complex_.

Only the previous day the _Complex_ had come out of Portsmouth
Harbour as the _Cynesepion_. She had been hurriedly docked, her
bottom cleaned and coated in less than six hours. Her armament,
consisting of one 4.7, four 12-pounders, and a couple of 3-pounder
high-angle guns, had in the dead of night been placed in their
elaborately concealed mountings. Her holds and double-bottoms were
packed tightly with cork; ammunition, stores, and oil fuel were
placed on board, and with a naval crew, she was taken out of
Portsmouth to the Motherbank, off Ryde.

Here the uniformed crew were taken off by a Government tug--leaving
only twenty "hands" under a couple of officers to take the ship
round to Southampton.

Almost their first act was to paint out the name _Cynesephon_ and
substitute that of _Complex_.

Cavendish went below. In the alley-way he encountered Robin Seton,
whom, until that moment, Cavendish had imagined to be undergoing a
course at "Whaley"--a "two and a half striper", now posing as the
first officer of the tramp.

"Cheerio, George!" was Seton's greetings. "Now our little band of
merry wreckers is complete. Seen Carr and Warrender? They're
sculling around somewhere. My word!"

He stepped back and critically looked Cavendish up and down.

"My word!" he continued. "I've never seen such a smart-looking Third
Mate before."

"So the Old Man remarked--or words to that effect," rejoined
Cavendish, with a laugh. "No matter. Live and learn. Where did you
pick up your rig-out?"

Seton held open his coat for inspection.

"Got kitted out in the Ditches for something like half a dozen
Bradburys," he replied proudly. "Sent the gunner's mate along to
make a deal. And he did. He knows the ropes."

Cavendish wished that he had known of the gunner's mate's
capabilities in the wardrobe department. He had laid out over
twenty-five pounds in an outfit that had already been twice remarked
upon as being out of place. He quite agreed that the hardest part of
the job was not to be smart, and to forget that he was an officer of
the Royal Navy.

The Sub was shown his cabin. He reappeared twenty minutes later
looking more his part.

The _Complex_ was under way. She had just parted company with a
fussy little tug that had coaxed, cajoled, pulled, and pushed her
out of the Empress Dock. Southampton lay astern, the Weston Shelf
buoy was broad on the port-beam, while ahead lay the wide stretch of
Southampton Water, until it merged into the Solent beyond the
airship sheds at Calshot Castle.

There was plenty of traffic, from gigantic ocean liners to
steam-lighters and "spreeties"--low-lying barges with a generous
spread of tanned canvas. Tramp steamers, topsail schooners, steam,
motor, and sailing yachts, tugs, "hoppers", and fishing-smacks
passed in endless procession, little knowing the venomous nature of
the little _Complex_ as she ploughed her way through the calm water
at a modest nine knots.

It was Alec Carr, the navigator, who showed Cavendish round the
ship. Carr, a burly, six feet two inch giant, hailing from North
Berwick, was the man for that job. He, like the Captain, knew the
ship from end to end, since both had served in a similar craft
during the later stages of the Great War.

The transformation had been an astounding one. From a long,
low-lying "P" boat, she had been altered into a very presentable
tramp, looking at least of 1500 tons, although her actual
displacement was little more than one-third of that tonnage. Yet she
retained the speed and high manoeuvring qualities of her original
role. She could work up to 23 knots when required, could turn almost
in her own length and with the minimum of "tactical advance". She
could go astern at 18 knots, while her nominal fuel capacity of 93
tons could be augmented sufficiently to give her a cruising distance
of 4000 miles without replenishing her oil tanks.

For armament, she was adequately provided with weapons calculated to
deal with anything short of a cruiser. The 4.7-inch gun was housed
in the fore-hold, the gun and its mounting being raised when
required by hydraulic pressure. On either side of the deck-house
under the bridge was a 12-pounder, each concealed by a section of
the dummy bulwarks, while by lowering two of the wings of the
deck-house an arc of fire of 160° could be obtained. Two more were
as skilfully concealed aft, while the 6-pounders were mounted in
boats stowed on top of the deck-house abaft the mainmast. The boats
were dummies, constructed to fall apart by means of hinges and
quick-release gear.

In addition she carried four 14-inch torpedo tubes of the
"submerged" type, and a couple of mortars for discharging depth
charges at a range of two hundred yards.

The "P-boat's" original conning-tower was still in existence,
although, owing to the new superstructure, its sphere of usefulness
was considerably curtailed. Another had been built for'ard.

Cavendish walked right round the latter and never spotted it.
Outwardly, nothing was to be seen but a big reel of wire hawser. The
reel was a dummy, being actually the hood of the armoured
conning-tower.

"See the idea?" inquired Carr. "If, by a bit of luck, we do fall in
with a pirate, he'll start shelling the bridge. We found that with
Fritz. Let him shell. There'll be no one there, and from this little
box of tricks our skipper can keep an eye on him until he decides
it's time to put him in his place--to wit, Davy Jones his locker."

"What's your opinion about the loss of these merchant vessels?"
asked Cavendish.

Carr shook his head.

"Ask me another," he replied. "That's what we're sent to find out."

The _Complex_ was now well down the Solent. Yarmouth(1) was on the
port bow, Lymington to starboard, and the high light of Hurst right
ahead, rising like a needle out of the sun-flecked water.

A light cruiser, with her distinguishing signals displayed and a
commodore's broad pennant flying from the masthead, came pelting
along, passing the decoy ship a cable's length to port. The
_Complex_ dipped her ragged, smoke-begrimed Red Ensign. Carr and
Cavendish exchanged glances.

"I was expecting the 'Still' to sound," declared the former. "Wonder
what Old Man Meredith thought of it all?"

As a matter of fact, Captain Meredith, D.S.O. (with bar), had almost
given himself away, and his vessel as well, by ordering the
strangely-garbed crew to attention. To deliberately ignore a
commodore's broad pennant was the most trying experience he had had
that day, which was saying a lot.

"Think we'll have any luck?" asked Cavendish, reverting to the
burning topic of the hour--the hoped-for meeting with an as yet
mythical pirate.

"Goodness knows," replied Carr. "I trust so. 'Tany rate, whether
we're up against a submarine or a commerce destroyer, we'll give 'em
a thundering good run for their money."

For the next few days, all hands were busily engaged in rehearsing
for the forthcoming show. Every member of the crew took up his cue
with zest, confident that should occasion arise they would play
their part to the utmost satisfaction of the navy generally, and
themselves in particular, and to the complete discomfiture of the
enemy--whoever or whatever he might be.

The drills took two distinct forms. The first was that of countering
an attack by a surface ship. In this case, with the exception of a
few hands leaning idly over the bulwarks and a couple of officers on
the bridge, the crew were at action stations and carefully hidden
from external observation. Right aft, crouching in a steel shelter
made to resemble a skylight, was a seaman holding the uncleated
halliards of the ensign staff. It was his duty, on hearing the
"action" gong, to strike the Red Ensign and substitute the White.
Simultaneously, all gun-screens were to be lowered and every gun
that could be trained on the target was to open fire, while below
the waterline the L.T.O.'s stood by the torpedo tubes ready to
launch the deadly missiles on an invisible objective; the direction
of the "run" being governed by controls from the conning-tower.

Should the piratical craft turn out to be a submarine, the procedure
was of an entirely different nature. The enemy might approach
submerged and torpedo her prey. In that event, the "panic-party"
would make a wild rush for the boats. One of the boats would be
purposely lowered by one of the falls only, so that it would tumble
bows on into the water. The "abandon ship" stunt would then be
carried out, the men in the boats rowing desperately from the
sinking ship.

"'Ere you--bow an' number three," bellowed the coxswain. "Stop
grinnin'. You ain't a bloomin' picnic party. Look as if you was
scared stiff. No! Don't for goodness' sake pull together. You ain't
pullin' for the Squadron Cup. You're supposed to be goin' for dear
life. Pull any'ow, as if Old Nick were in the perishin' boat."

The rest of the decoy ship's crew were at action stations,
supposedly on a foundering vessel, although it was to be expected
that even if torpedoed the _Complex_ would keep afloat by reason of
the "cargo" of cork. There, prone in their places of concealment,
unable to see what was going on, they had to wait until the
submarine appeared awash and on a suitable bearing for the guns to
be brought into action.

If the submarine declined to investigate and the _Complex_ was
really sinking, there was nothing for the crew of the latter to do
but to abandon ship in earnest and trust that a wireless message to
the destroyers perhaps a hundred miles away would bring succour and
perhaps retribution, should the lurking enemy be located by aerial
observation from co-operating seaplanes.

Then, again, there was the chance of the submarine coming to the
surface and shelling the _Complex_ at long range. That was the most
trying situation of all. The supposed tramp had to withhold her fire
and take her gruelling without replying. The only thing to be done
was to stop engines, start a fire on board, and, by flooding the
for'ard water-tight compartments, give the impression that she was
sinking by the bows. Then arose the question: would the submarine
close sufficiently for the decoy ship's guns to bear and fire with
fatal consequence to her foe? For the _Complex_ to reveal herself as
a formidably armed warship and at the same time to allow the
submarine to get away, was the worst thing that could happen. To
destroy was the _Complex's_ mission; anything short of that meant
failure--glorious failure, perhaps, but none the less futile.

Sub-lieutenant Cavendish's action station was by the two after
12-pounders, his duty being to keep the enemy under observation
through a periscope. The latter was cleverly disguised as a
galley-funnel. The post was a hazardous one--rather more than the
rest. Since the _Complex_, if shelled by a submarine, had to
simulate flight, the after part of the ship would bear the brunt of
things. Then it was quite possible that the depth-charges might be
exploded by shell-fire and blow the poop and everyone near it to
smithereens. Cavendish had to admit, with a shivering sensation in
the region of his spine, that Commander Broadstairs' hint of the
dangerous nature of the mission for which the Sub had volunteered
was by no means an exaggeration.


  1) In the Isle of Wight.




CHAPTER XX

Two Against One


Once clear of the "chops of the Channel" the _Complex_ had increased
her pace to a good eighteen knots. In due course, she arrived at the
Bermudas and replenished her fuel tanks at the Admiralty
yard--taking advantage of a privilege accorded to merchant vessels
seeking assistance from Government resources.

The light cruiser _Basilikon_ and her attendant destroyers
_Messines_ and _Armentières_ had preceded her, and were lying off
the town of Hamilton. They knew what she was, she knew what they
were there for, but no sign of recognition passed between the
rusty-sided tramp and her spick-and-span consorts.

Continuing her voyage, the _Complex_ sighted nothing conspicuous.
Without incident, she arrived at Bahia, where she received
telegraphic orders from her imaginary owners to proceed to Savannah
to unload.

Accordingly, she turned her head to the nor'ard, and, at a modest
eight knots, proceeded to invite the as yet mythical pirate to
"tread on the tail of her coat".

Several days passed. No calls from distressed vessels were received.
Ships of all nations were passing on their lawful occasions without
let or hindrance. Cape St. Roque, the north-easternmost point of
Brazil, had been passed on the port hand, and a course shaped
north-west by west to enable the decoy ship to keep within a hundred
miles of the coast.

At one bell in the first Dog-watch on the day following, Cavendish,
who was on duty as officer of the watch, heard the look-out report
"vessel on the port bow, sir."

The Sub brought his binoculars to bear upon the vessel in question.
She was quite five miles off and apparently on a course practically
the same as that of the _Complex_.

In spite of the purposely slow speed of the latter, the _Complex_
gained rapidly on the stranger, and presently Cavendish saw that she
was not making way and that she was flying the N.C.--the
international signal requesting immediate assistance. The glasses
also revealed the information that the vessel was a tramp, flying
the Red Ensign and bearing the name _Holton Heath_--_London_ on her
counter.

In response to a message from the officer of the watch, Captain
Meredith was quickly on the bridge.

"No wireless from her?" inquired the owner.

"No, sir."

"H'm, that's remarkable, very. Action stations. We can't afford to
take risks of this description.... Signalman?"

"Sir?"

"Stand by with the International Code flags," continued the Skipper.
"Don't be too smart in making the hoists. Ask 'em what's wrong."

Stealthily the crew went to action stations, allowing no chance of
their presence being visible to anyone on board the _Holton Heath_.
Leaving Carr and Cavendish on the bridge, Meredith went below, made
his way for'ard by means of the specially provided armoured
alley-way, and gained the fo'c'sle conning-tower.

Meanwhile, the _Holton Heath_ had made her number correctly and had
given the information that her main-shaft had been broken. Could she
be taken in tow?

Carr reported the request from voice tube to Captain Meredith.

"Round-to under her stern," ordered the Captain. "Don't hurry, I
want to have a good look at her. Reply, 'I will take you in tow '."

The _Complex_ was manoeuvred according to orders. Half a dozen hands
went aft, ready to receive and secure the hawser to the
towing-bitts. The Captain of the _Holton Heath_ stepped to the
starboard side of the bridge and waved an acknowledgment.

Presently Captain Meredith's voice-pipe whistle sounded.

"Ay, ay, sir," replied Cavendish.

"She seems jonnick," said the Skipper, in a somewhat disappointed
tone. "We'll take her hawser. Pass the word for a hand to stand by
the Senhouse slip, in case we want to cast off in a hurry."

The Sub leant over the bridge-rail to give the order to one of the
deck-hands, when his eye caught sight of the wake of a torpedo
rapidly approaching the now almost stationary _Complex_. It was
coming, not from the _Holton Heath_, but from a submerged source
broad on the _Complex's_ beam.

Cavendish watched it like one in a trance. His parched throat
refused to utter a warning. For days he had expected this to happen.
He had hoped it would, and now, this being the first time that he
had experienced the sight of a live torpedo approaching, he found
that it was a totally different experience from watching a "tinfish"
being discharged _from_ the ship, and he was dumbfounded.

Too late he recalled the special orders given in anticipation of
such an occurrence--orders which he and every other executive
officer in the ship had countersigned--that in the event of a
torpedo being sighted as fired from a submerged submarine, no effort
was to be made to _avoid_ the impact. On the other hand, the ship
must be brought to meet it, so that the torpedo would strike
anywhere except in the vicinity of the engine-room. In brief, the
decoy ship was to sacrifice herself in the almost certain hope that,
before she sank, the enemy would reveal himself and fall a victim to
her guns.

Tardily, Cavendish jumped to the engine-room telegraph and rang for
"easy astern". Before the order could be acted upon, the torpedo hit
the _Complex_ twenty feet abaft the bridge, against the starboard
engine-room. There was a terrific report. A column of water was
thrown violently into the air to a height of nearly two hundred
feet, mingled with smoke, oil, and pieces of cork and shattered
timber. The _Complex_ heeled rapidly to port, then, recovering
slightly, lay well over on her starboard side, and the engine- and
boiler-rooms were flooded by the irresistible inrush of water.

In view of the suddenness of the attack, coming from a totally
unexpected quarter, it would not have been surprising had the
_Complex_ unmasked her guns and thus revealed her identity.

But nothing of the sort happened. Not a man of the concealed crew
started to his feet. Discipline--perfect order--prevailed; all on
board, with the exception of three victims of the explosion who had
already "slipped their cables", remaining alert, awaiting their
Captain's orders.

Undoubtedly, it was a complex situation, and one for which no
adequate provision had been made.

Cavendish, now that the explosion had taken place, was wondering
what he ought to do. Should he order away the panic-party? If he
did, they would be obliged, for appearance's sake, to make for the
_Holton Heath_. But was she what she purported to be? Or was she
acting in consort with the still unseen submarine?

"If," reasoned the Sub, "if she's a British merchantman, why did the
submarine waste a torpedo on us when she had an easy victim of about
three times our tonnage?"


[Illustration: THE "PANIC PARTY" (missing from book)]


Similar thoughts were flashing across the mind of the imperturbable
Captain Meredith.

"Order away the panic party, officer of the watch," he shouted per
voice-tube. For the present he would ignore the submarine and keep
the _Holton Heath_ under observation, he decided.

The latter vessel had swung round slightly, so that her starboard
beam was exposed to the sinking _Complex_. On the bridge of the
former, her captain was bellowing incoherent cries. A few hands were
preparing to lower the quarter-boats.

Cavendish gave the order verbally. It would not do to trust to the
prearranged system of gongs.

Instantly, there was a well-simulated panic-stricken rush for the
_Complex's_ boats, men falling over each other in their efforts to
swing clear and lower away. Carrying out the lesson learnt at their
rehearsals, they let one of the boats down by the head, staving in
her gunwale against the listing side of the ship.

Suddenly, the supposed disabled _Holton Heath_ underwent a
transformation. Portions of her bulwarks dropped, revealing the
muzzles of half a dozen quick-firers. Simultaneously, swarms of men
appeared on deck to gloat over the anticipated spectacle, while
several machine-guns were being placed in position with a view to
mowing down the survivors of the helpless and foundering British
ship.

There was now no doubt in the minds of the officers and men of the
_Complex_ who were in a position to see what was going on, of the
manner in which so many craft flying the Red Ensign had vanished
without a trace.

The Rioguayan crew were in no hurry. They prepared to prolong the
business, before commencing a general and cold-blooded massacre. But
on this occasion, the already sinking victim was to prove a very
unpleasant surprise-packet.

Captain Meredith was quick to act. Alarm gongs rang out in all parts
of the stricken ship. The panic-party, abandoning their role, threw
themselves prone and began to wriggle their way to their appointed
battle stations. The Red Ensign was hurriedly lowered, to be
replaced by the emblem of British naval power.

Down clattered the gun-screens. Before the astonished and terrified
Rioguayans could realize their mistake, the vengeful quick-firers
took a heavy toll, receiving but one shell in reply--a 4-inch
missile that whizzed harmlessly between the rigging.

The British gun-layers made one mistake. In their anxiety to settle
with their treacherous foes, they aimed, not at the enemy's
waterline, but at the dense mob on deck. There the havoc was beyond
description.

Before the error could be corrected, the _soi-disant_ S.S. _Holton
Heath_ had forged ahead, until she was end on to the bows of the
_Complex_. The latter, stopped dead and unable to gather way, was
sorely handicapped, for her 4.7-inch was masked by the rise of the
fo'c'sle and the explosion of the torpedo had disarranged the
training gear of the for'ard 12-pounder--the only gun that in
ordinary circumstances could be brought to bear upon the fleeing
vessel.

A triple-screwed cruiser disguised as a tramp, the _Cerro
Algarrobo--alias Holton Heath_--was "legging it" at twenty-two
knots, yet it was evident that, apart from the raking she had
received, she had been hulled aft, since she was yawing badly. A
12-pounder shell had penetrated the submerged steering flat and had
put the rudder out of action.

All need for concealment now at an end, Captain Meredith emerged
from the fo'c'sle conning-tower and climbed the bridge-ladder.

By this time, the _Complex_ had settled well down aft. Fumes and
steam were still issuing from her engine-rooms. The acrid smell of
burnt cordite still wafted from the unsecured guns.

The skipper had to make up his mind quickly--whether it were worth
while pretending to abandon ship again and thus lure the submarine
into rising to the surface, or to wireless for assistance.

He decided on the latter course. It might not be too late for the
_Messines_ and _Armentières_ to stand in pursuit of the somewhat
damaged _Cerro Algarrobo_. The seaplanes from the _Basilikon_ might
be able to spot the lurking submarine, if, as was likely, she
continued to remain in the vicinity to make sure of the sinking of
the _Complex_.

Accordingly, the wireless telegraphist began sending out an urgent
signal to the _Basilikon_. The reply was prompt and to the point.
The cruiser and her attendant destroyers were roughly seventy miles
off. The _Messines_ and _Armentières_ were detached to proceed at
full speed to the foundering decoy ship.

The _Complex_ was in no immediate hurry to make her acquaintance
with the bed of the Atlantic. Her cargo of cork and her elaborate
system of water-tight bulkheads were playing their parts well. Those
of the crew who were not at the guns were busily engaged in shoring
up the bulkheads and endeavouring to pass a collision-mat over the
gaping rent caused by the torpedo. The flooding of the boiler-rooms
had automatically put out of action the mechanical bilge-pumps, but
the hand-pumps, manned by the stokers of both watches, helped to
delay the inevitable.

Meanwhile, the boats were lowered, each armed with a Lewis gun in
the likely event of the submarine attempting to massacre the
survivors. The wounded were transferred to one of the boats, the
medical officer and sick-berth staff being in attendance.

Having taken all precautions, Captain Meredith and his crew could
but await the end, whatever way it might turn out.

"Periscope right astern, sir," reported the Gunner. Hardly able to
credit the good news, the skipper crossed to the port side of the
bridge and looked. To his surprise and satisfaction, the submarine
was within eighty yards of her victim. Her commander, judging that,
as the stern of the _Complex_ was almost awash, it was safe to make
a periscopic view of the foundering vessel at short range, was in
complete ignorance of the fact that the decoy ship still carried a
most formidable sting in her tail. It might be that through
inexperience he had misjudged his distance and had brought the
submarine closer to the _Complex_ than he thought.

Dead astern of the decoy-ship, he imagined himself to be safe. A
Rioguayan invariably plays for "safety first". The two after
12-pounders could not be brought to bear astern. Even if they could,
they could achieve nothing beyond demolishing one of the three
periscopes with which the submarine was equipped. Twenty feet of
water between the surface of the sea and the armoured back of the
submarine would deflect any shell striking the water obliquely.

"Mr. Jones!" sang out Captain Meredith, "let her have it in the
neck."

The warrant-officer signed to a couple of hands. Deftly and
cautiously, the howitzers were loaded with their deadly
depth-charges and trained to extreme elevations.

Both weapons were discharged simultaneously. The missiles rose with
apparent slowness. Viewed from the bridge, they looked like enormous
cricket-balls being lobbed by a titanic hand. Describing parabolic
curves, they struck the water almost vertically--one on either side
and about ten yards from the periscope. There was a double splash.
The tip of the periscope was hidden in spray, but still there was no
explosion. The depth-charges had to sink to a distance of thirty
feet before they were automatically detonated.

Right aft, the Gunner was standing knee-deep in water, with a hand
over his eyes as he watched. In vain the Skipper shouted to him to
take cover. His interest in what was about to take place had
rendered him deaf to every other sound.

Suddenly there was a stupendous upheaval. Almost the entire length
of the submarine was lifted clear of the agitated sea, but only for
a few brief moments. Completely torn asunder, the doomed craft
disappeared from view, amidst a pall of smoke and under a rapidly
increasing circle of oil and charred débris.

A wave of foaming water swept over the now submerged stern of the
decoy-ship, hurling the zealous Gunner Jones against the dummy
steering wheel.

The _Complex's_ stem rose sullenly, until the whole of her forefoot
showed clear. She was making her last plunge. The concussion of the
exploding depth-charges, while they had sent her foe to her doom,
had also hastened her parting.

"Abandon ship--all hands!" shouted the Old Man.




CHAPTER XXI

A Stern Chase


It was the work of a few moments for the rest of the
highly-disciplined crew to take to the boats that, regardless of the
danger, had closed to rescue their comrades.

Captain Meredith was the last to leave. True to the traditions of
the British navy, he stood on the bridge until not another soul
remained on board. Then, with the confidential code-book under his
arm, he leapt nimbly into the stern-sheets of the cutter.

A couple of cables' lengths from the doomed vessel, the crews of the
various boats lay on their oars and awaited the end. There was
almost dead silence. Although the men were elated at having scored
heavily off their treacherous foes, the sight of their erstwhile
floating home disappearing for ever from mortal eyes was a sad one.
Now and then some of the wounded groaned involuntarily. Those whose
hurts were light insisted upon sitting up and watching the
awe-inspiring sight.

The _Complex_ went quietly. There was very little commotion in the
water, no rush of compressed air. With the White Ensign streaming
proudly in the light breeze, she slipped slowly beneath the surface
and disappeared from view.

"The seaplanes, my hearties!" shouted a bull voice, and a horny hand
was raised with the finger pointed at an angle of about forty-five.

"Smart work, by Jove," commented Cavendish, glancing at his wristlet
watch.

Barely fifty minutes had elapsed from the time of sending out the
first wireless call, and already the two seaplanes attached to the
_Basilikon_ were in sight.

They were manned by officers and petty-officers of the newly
reconstituted Royal Naval Air Service. The Royal Air Force, although
admirable in its conception, had failed in actual practice. The
fusion of the Naval and Military branches had left much to be
desired. Apart from mutual jealousy--a very different thing from
healthy rivalry--the two branches were not readily interchangeable.
It was soon realized that an airman working with a fleet must not
only be an aviator--he must have had a naval training. It could not
reasonably be expected that a man with little knowledge of ships and
the sea could be of much use in an air squadron operating under the
orders of an admiral. He might be, and possibly was, an excellent
airman, but something more was required. Hence, after prolonged and
heated arguments, the Admiralty got their way, and the purely naval
airman again came into his own, unhampered by well-meaning but
blundering Air Ministry officials. The two seaplanes, flying at two
thousand feet, passed almost immediately above the bunch of
motionless boats. From each a hand waved over the coaming of the
cockpit a distant tribute to the cheers of the late crew of the
_Complex_.

A few minutes later, the seaplanes were lost to view. Already they
had received a report of the course taken by the fleeing _Cerro
Algarrobo_, for that information had been embodied in the
_Complex's_ wireless for aid. Like vengeful wraiths they were hard
in pursuit, with the object of bombing the pirate vessel and
crippling her sufficiently to allow the destroyers either to capture
or destroy the mysterious cause of the disappearance of so many
British merchantmen.

Alone on the deep, the boats' crews became boisterous. They sang,
cheered, and yelled, confident in the assurance that they would
shortly find themselves on board a British warship. Their Old Man
allowed them to "work off steam". It was a natural outlet for their
pent-up feelings, after days and nights of ceaseless watch and ward,
followed by a glorious climax of self-sacrifice.

It was not long before two trailing clouds of smoke appeared over
the eastern horizon.

"Hurrah! here come the destroyers, lads," exclaimed Captain
Meredith. "Give them a cheer as they pass and then sit tight for the
old _Basilikon_ to roll up. You'll be sleeping in hammocks to-night
all right."

Quickly the approaching vessels materialized into two very
business-looking destroyers, each armed with five guns--four
4.7-inch, one 3-inch--and six 21-inch torpedo tubes, and credited
with a speed of 35 knots. At the present moment they were doing a
good 5 knots more than their designed speed, flinging showers of
spray on both sides of their pronounced flare and emitting
flame-tinged smoke from their glowing funnels.

Then an unexpected manoeuvre took place. The men in the boats, fully
prepared to have a terrific dusting from the swell of the
swiftly-moving destroyers, had resumed their oars and were heading
so as to meet the curling bow waves end on.

Instead of holding on their course, which would have taken them not
less than half a mile from the nearest boat, the destroyers altered
helm, one passing on either side of the little flotilla. Losing way
under the reverse action of their quadruple propellers, the
destroyers came to a standstill.

"On board, every mother's son of you!" shouted an officer from the
bridge of the _Messines_.

The survivors of the _Complex_ could hardly realize their good
fortune. They were to be in at the death after all. They were to
witness, and perhaps take an active part in, the smashing up of the
so-called _Holton Heath_, otherwise the Rioguayan light cruiser
_Cerro Algarrobo_.

Quickly the work of taking off the boats' crews was accomplished,
the majority finding a temporary home on board the _Armentières_,
the rest on the _Messines_.

Sub-lieutenant Cavendish was amongst the latter. He had barely time
to exchange greetings with a short, bull-necked brother-officer--one
Slade, who was on the same term with him at Dartmouth--when the
_Messines_ forged ahead again, leaving three deserted boats bobbing
forlornly in her foaming wake.

"How goes it, old thing?" inquired Cavendish.

"Not so dusty," admitted Sub-lieutenant Slade. "We're hoping to
finish the job before dark. We've a couple of hours yet.... You've
been having a bit of a jamboree, eh what? See anything of the
submarine?"

"I did," replied Cavendish grimly. "Both ends with nothing between
'em."

"Are you trying to pull my leg, Weeds?" inquired Slade earnestly.

"No--fact," was the reply. "We did her in with an ash-can--a couple,
in point of fact. Couldn't let you know before. Dynamos were flooded
and emergency wireless was out of action."

"You must tell our owner that," continued Slade. "He's on the
bridge."

Lieutenant-Commander Trehallow received the information with marked
enthusiasm and not a little relief. Hitherto, he was hampered by the
knowledge that there was a mysterious submarine acting as consort to
the pirate surface-craft. The submarine accounted for, left him and
his "opposite number" on the _Armentières_ with relatively free
hands. They could concentrate all their energies upon the pursuit of
the _soi-disant Holton Heath_ without the chance of becoming targets
to an invisible foe--unless there were other submarines out.

"It puzzles me," remarked Trehallow to Cavendish as they stood under
the lee of the chart-room, the only possible spot on the otherwise
exposed bridge where they could converse without having to shout in
a howling wind, "it puzzles me to know where these blighters hail
from. You can't hide even a disguised cruiser and a submarine in
your coat pocket. They must have a base somewhere--but where?
There's no port on this part of the coast that isn't under the
control and jurisdiction of one or other of the South American
republics. It's fishy--very. There's something pretty big behind
this. Only the other day----"

The appearance of the yeoman of signals, with a signed pad in his
hand, interrupted the Lieutenant-Commander's words.

"By smoke!" he ejaculated. "Here, Carfax!"

The officer thus addressed laid down his telescope and joined his
chief behind the chart-house.

"Look here, Carfax," continued the Lieutenant-Commander, "what do
you make of this?"

"This" was a crudely pencilled report, almost obliterated in places
where the flying spray had played havoc with indelible pencil.

It was to the effect that both seaplanes had been compelled to
alight on the surface for the second time in half an hour. On each
occasion they had got well to the west'ard of their quarry, hoping
to keep in the eyes of the setting sun and thus approach without
being observed. They had succeeded in getting within three miles of
the fugitive, when unaccountably their engines "konked".

"Alighted and made examination," proceeded the report. "Everything
O.K. Restarted; came down again. Are now up again. Will----"

Here the message ended.

"Why didn't the silly owl finish?" inquired Trehallow testily.

"'Cause, sir, he's probably had to come down again," hazarded
Carfax. "Can't wireless with the aerial trailing in the water and
all hands trying to find out what's wrong with the old 'bus. 'Tany
rate, we're only fifteen miles astern."

"And a stern chase is a long one," commented the
Lieutenant-Commander, glancing at a western sky.

"Where is the pirate making for, I wonder?" inquired Cavendish,
turning to Carfax, when the skipper had gone into the chart-room.

"According to what I've heard, he's making for the estuary of the
Rio Guaya," replied the Sub of the _Messines_. "Goodness only knows
what for. There are three potty little republics somewhere there,
and they wouldn't dare to give shelter to a filibustering blighter
like that. But what is puzzling me is, why do our seaplanes keep
failing? We've had 'em up for eight hours on a stretch many a time
and they've never had any trouble up to now. And when they're most
wanted they're broken reeds. Give me something that floats, any old
time," he added, with sublime youthful confidence in the omnipotence
of sea power.

Twenty minutes later, another wireless report came through from the
seaplanes. It was to the effect that neither was able to approach
the fugitive pirate. If they attempted to do so their engines
failed, but as soon as the pirate craft drew away there was no
further trouble until they again overhauled their quarry.

Lieutenant-Commander Trehallow was obviously perplexed. At first
inclined to imagine that the series of forced descents was due to
accident, he had at last to admit that on the face of things the
seaplanes were under some unknown adverse influence.

He therefore gave the airmen instructions to keep the pirate craft
within sight, but not to close, until the destroyers came within
visual distance of their foe. Then, rather than risk having to stop
and pick up a couple of disabled aircraft, he would order them to
return to their parent ship, the light cruiser _Basilikon_.

At length the masts and funnel of the fugitive ship appeared over
the horizon. The destroyers, hard on her track, were now rapidly
overhauling her, It was a question whether they would get within
striking distance before dark. The odds were against that, for the
sun was now only a few degrees above the horizon.

Meanwhile, all preparations were being made for a night encounter.
Battle lanterns were provided in the event of the electric lamps
being put out of action; night sights were attached to the guns; the
parachute star-shells were taken from the magazine and the
searchlights prepared for use.

The sun dipped. The short tropical twilight gave place to intense
darkness. The moon was not due to appear for another couple of
hours, and in that time the pirate vessel might have found an
opportunity to evade pursuit.

There was no doubt that she was attempting to do so; but she had
overlooked one important circumstance--her phosphorescent wake.
Miles astern, clearly defined on the surface of the dark water, was
a faint luminous trail and to this the avenging destroyers kept,
like bloodhounds to a strong scent.

Suddenly a vivid flash of reddish light sprang out of the darkness
ahead. A shell whined through the air, throwing up a column of spray
two hundred yards on the _Messines_' port quarter.

"Six-inch, by the sound of it," commented Lieutenant-Commander
Trehallow. "We've found her this time. On searchlights!"




CHAPTER XXII

Flying-boats _v._ Destroyers


Two dazzling beams from the _Messines_' bridge leapt across the
waste of dark water. The _Armentières_' searchlights were almost
immediately switched on, and the four powerful rays swept
inquiringly in the direction from which the flash of the hostile
quick-firer emanated.

Had there been two enemy vessels, Trehallow, as senior officer
present, would not have ordered the searchlights to be run. In those
circumstances it would have been bad tactics. Whilst you are
"picking up" one opponent, the other will, to a certainty, pour in a
withering fire. But when, as in the present case, it is possible to
concentrate the dazzling beams upon a solitary hostile craft, the
latter is practically blinded. She cannot fire with any degree of
accuracy right into a bewildering glare, while her gun-layers, in
the knowledge that they are literally "in the limelight" and in
momentary anticipation of the arrival of a death-dealing salvo,
become "jumpy" and possibly panic-stricken.

It was a matter of a few seconds before the beams picked up their
objective. The _Cerro Algarrobo_ was eight thousand yards away, and
had just turned eight points to port, or at right angles to her
previous course. With the discharge of her quick-firer she had
resorted to a very old trick--one that stood a fair chance of
success before the era of searchlights. She had dropped overboard a
balsa-raft with a lighted lantern, in the hope that her pursuers
would concentrate on that and give her an opportunity to escape in
the darkness.

But now she lay revealed, with two powerfully-armed destroyers, both
capable of giving her six or seven knots, well within effective
range.

The _Cerro Algarrobo_ was heavily armed and was protected on the
water-line. She had a very numerous crew, well trained in modern
naval warfare. Had the cruiser been manned by Britons and the
destroyers by the pirates, the former would have been more than a
match for her opponents. But the dominant factors--the man behind
the gun and the cool, calculating brain in the conning-tower--were
absent. The hot-blooded South American strain--partly Spanish,
partly negro, with a touch of Indian and a flavour of a dozen other
races--was no match for the British seaman.

Already, in her brief encounter with the _Complex_, the Rioguayan
cruiser had "bitten off more than she could chew". She had lain in
wait for the decoy ship in the belief that the latter was unarmed
and unsuspecting, and that she could, with impunity, fire upon the
already sinking British ship. Instead, she had been sent in headlong
flight, with gaping holes in her upper works and fifty of her crew
_hors de combat_ And worse was to come.

The 4.7's were getting to work. Splashes of lurid light marked the
explosion of the deadly missiles right on their target. The
Rioguayan vessel replied, but feebly, most of her projectiles
falling short and wide of the zigzagging destroyers.

In five minutes the _Cerro Algarrobo_ was on fire fore and aft. Her
masts and funnel had disappeared, her topsides were torn by ragged
gashes through which lurid flames poured fiercely.

She was still making way, but at a very reduced speed, and showed a
pronounced list to starboard.

"Cease fire!"

The pandemonium died down. A tense silence brooded over the
destroyers, save for the hiss of escaping steam and the _swish_ of
water from their knife-like bows.

Satisfied that the pirate craft had received her quietus, the
British destroyers were about to close and lower boats. There were
lives to be saved, even if they were those of blood-thirsty pirates.
Apart from humanitarian instincts, it was desirable to find out from
the survivors the exact particulars of the mysterious buccaneering
vessel.

A gun was discharged from the burning Rioguayan cruiser, Whether it
was a note of defiance, or merely caused by the flames exploding the
charge in a loaded quick-firer was a matter for speculation.

The masthead flashing lamp of the _Messines_ sent out a demand for
surrender, with the assurance that quarter would be given to the
survivors.

"X G E" (surrender), read out the Chief Yeoman to the signalman, at
the key of the flashing lamp, referring to the International Code
Manual, "O A H (I will give you)..."

Then he paused and turned inquiringly to the Lieutenant-Commander.

"Beg pardon, sir," he exclaimed, "but there ain't no right letters
for 'quarter '. Will this 'ere 'U E V' do?"

Trehallow glanced at the signal book.

"Use that and risk it," he replied, adding in an undertone, "s'pose
the Tower of Babel is responsible for this."

"Beg pardon, sir?" reiterated the Yeoman of Signals interrogatively.

"Carry on," said the Lieutenant-Commander curtly. So the signal had
flashed forth as follows:

"Surrender--I will give you one-fourth!"

The answer was in the negative. The _Cerro Algarrobo_ replied with
five or six rounds, one of the projectiles penetrating the
_Messines_' quarter and completely wrecking the Skipper's cabin.

There was no hope for it. Both destroyers reopened fire. In less
than thirty seconds an explosion was observed on board the hostile
craft. Then, in a pall of smoke, she disappeared beneath the waves.

The crews of both destroyers broke into a round of stentorian
cheers. With searchlights still playing on the debris-strewn water,
the _Messines_ hastened to search for possible survivors.

Slowing down, she lowered a couple of boats. The _Armentières_,
lying-to a couple of cables away, assisted in the search.

Two half-naked and badly burnt men were rescued from the keel of an
upturned boat. Others were observed to be clinging to a large float,
somewhat resembling a "Carley" raft, at a considerable distance from
the scene of the _Cerro Algarrobo's_ disappearance.

The _Messines_' whaler was hurrying to their succour when there was
a tremendous detonation within fifty yards of the _Armentières_. The
destroyers heeled under the upheaval of the water. Men on deck were
thrown about like skittles, some narrowly escaping being washed
overboard by the torrent of water that swept completely over her. At
the same moment her searchlights went out, probably owing to the
dislocation of the circuits under the terrific concussion.

"What are those seaplane fellows doing?" exclaimed Trehallow.
"They're bombing us, by Jove! Switch on our recognition lights. Be
sharp there!"

But before the order could be carried out, bombs were descending
close to both destroyers. Against the faint luminosity of the
starless sky could be discerned the outlines of half a dozen
aircraft, wheeling in squadron formation, preparatory to returning
to the attack.

"Hostile aircraft!" ejaculated the Lieutenant-Commander, hardly able
to credit his senses. "The sky's stiff with 'em."

The position of the destroyers was now an unusual one. With their
boats still away picking up survivors, they could not manoeuvre at
high speed. Their only means of offence was a solitary "A A" gun
each. They were taken by surprise and had no means of finding out
the actual nature of the aerial attack.

Ordering the searchlights to be screened and all lights visible from
without to be masked, Trehallow next telegraphed for "easy ahead",
at the same time warning the engine-room staff against the danger of
allowing flames to issue from the funnels.

Then he steamed slowly in the direction of the destroyer's boats,
the crews of which were still busy with the work of rescue, despite
the danger to which the latest development of enemy activity so
cruelly subjected them.

Doubtless the _Armentières_ was similarly engaged. There was no sign
of her in the darkness; added to the complicated business was the
possibility of the two destroyers colliding.

Whether the _Armentières_ was successful in her quest those on board
the _Messines_ were in ignorance. On her part, the _Messines_ was
fortunate to pick up her boats in quick time, including two
survivors of the _Cerro Algarrobo_. The others sighted clinging to
the raft had perforce to be abandoned to their fate; the coxswain of
the _Messines_' whaler afterwards reported that a bomb had fallen
close to the raft and had probably sent the luckless pirates to
share the fate of the bulk of their comrades.

The boats had only just been hastily hoisted in and secured, when
the loud drone of a dozen aeroplane engines announced the return of
the aerial attackers.

It would be no exaggeration to state frankly that the crews of the
two destroyers had--to use a pithy expression--"cold feet". On board
a lightly-built craft, with little or no protection--for the decks
were only of three-sixteenths steel--the crews were practically
helpless. All they could do was to "stick it "; for, with the
exception of the three hands manning the anti-aircraft gun, they had
no means of offence against the almost invisible menace from the
darkened sky.

In the heat of battle, even against odds, when each man had his
active part to perform, there was little or no time for thoughts of
personal danger. These were men who had willingly undertaken to
remain motionless for hours upon the deck of a Q-boat when shelled
by a submarine; they did so in the hope that an opportunity of
hitting back with interest was imminent, They had weapons wherewith
to strike and strike hard, and they were eager to take up the
offensive at the very earliest opportune moment.

But now the position was different, They were defenceless--or
practically so--against the hostile airmen. They were ignorant of
the nationality of their foes, of the strength and manoeuvring power
of the attacking aircraft. Yet not a man failed to do his duty,
although his greatest concern was to conceal from his "raggie" any
indication of the fear that gripped him. Both destroyers were now
without way. They realized that zigzagging tactics were too risky.
The tell-tale phosphorescent wake that had betrayed the fugitive
_Cerro Algarrobo_ would also reveal their presence to the men
controlling those swift-moving machines high above the surface of
the sea.

It was now so dark that the _Messines_ had entirely lost touch with
her opposite number. Not the faintest suspicion of a light was
displayed. The anti-aircraft gun of each destroyer was silent,
although the respective gunlayers were itching to let rip at the
reapproaching aerial squadron.

Suddenly a star-shell fired from the leading flying-boat threw the
two destroyers into a pool of light. All attempt at concealment was,
for the present, futile. Engine-room telegraph gongs clanged. The
long, lean boats darted forward, heeling to the action of their
helms put hard over. The "antis" spat viciously, the crash of the
exploding shells punctuating the roar of the aerial propellers.

One of the attacking aircraft, caught by a six-pounder, was
literally pulverized. Apparently the detonation of the projectile
had exploded her cargo of powerful bombs.

In the flash of the explosion, the rest of the attackers could be
seen staggering under the effect of the air-blast; but, admirably
handled, they recovered and resumed formation, closing up the gap
where the luckless flying-boat had been.

The British crews cheered ironically at the destruction of one of
their foes, but their triumph was short-lived. Almost before the
shouting had subsided, a bomb struck the _Armentières_ between the
stern and the after torpedo tubes. So terrific was the force of the
resulting explosion that the after part of the destroyer was
completely shattered. Deprived of her propellers and rudder, she
still carried way, though her deck as far for'ard as the aftermast
funnel was awash. Knee-deep in water, her shell-shocked
anti-aircraft gun's crew were still firing blindly.

"She's gone!" ejaculated Carfax, who with Cavendish and another
officer, was on the _Messines_' bridge.

"No fear," replied Cavendish, catching a glimpse of the
_Armentières_' outlines in the flash of the gun. "Watertight
bulkheads are holding."

Cavendish was now almost unconscious of the peril that threatened
the _Messines_. The plight of the _Armentières_ had displaced all
other thoughts. He felt himself speculating as to what ought to be
done and what he would do had he been commanding-officer of the
_Messines_.

Lieutenant-Commander Trehallow was grappling with a similar problem,
but in his case he was quick to act. To attempt to seek safety in
flight and leave the crippled destroyer to fall an easy prey to her
attackers never entered into his calculations. He was debating
whether to run alongside the _Armentières_ and remove her crew, or
whether to attempt to take the sorely damaged craft in tow.

The while bombs were dropping rapidly, but the enemy airmen were
either novices at the game or were too excited to act with
deliberation. The nearest of the terrible missiles fell not less
than eighty yards away, turning the otherwise calm sea into a
maelstrom of smoke-laden spray.

The second phase of the attack passed. The airmen had overshot their
quarry and were turning to approach in the eye of the wind once
more.

Trehallow rang for easy ahead, shouting to the quarter-master to lay
the _Messines_ alongside her consort. It was a difficult operation
in the darkness, but with admirable skill and judgment the
Lieutenant-Commander succeeded in his manoeuvre.

"Prepare to be taken in tow," he roared through a megaphone.

A greatcoated figure on the _Armentières_' deck raised his hand in
acknowledgment. Men dashed on to her fo'c'sle to receive the
heaving-lines. The wire hawsers were hauled aboard and shackled to
the towing strops with the utmost dispatch, but without confusion.
Here again discipline told.

Gently the _Messines_ forged ahead until the strain on the hawsers
was taken up. Then, in obedience to an order, dense clouds of smoke
issued from both vessels, enveloping them like a pall.

Under cover of the smoke-screen--one of the recognized appliances of
modern naval warfare--the two destroyers made a bid for safety. The
odds were now in their favour. A single aeroplane might venture to
attack through that lofty, dense, suffocating bank of artificial
fog. More would stand a serious risk of collision. And, apart from
having no visible target, an attacking aircraft would quickly loose
all sense of direction while within the limits of the smoke-cloud.

Trehallow's next move was to send a wireless message to the
_Basilikon_, requesting the light cruiser to keep away. It would be
useless devotion on the part of the latter to run the risk of being
destroyed by aerial bombs under cover of night.

Still zigzagging and consequently throwing a heavy strain upon the
towing hawsers, the _Messines_ carried on. There were limits to the
duration of the action of the smoke apparatus. Sooner or later the
two destroyers would have to emerge, but it remained to be seen
whether they had eluded the five flying-boats. Perhaps the hostile
aircraft were hovering, three thousand feet up and out of sight and
hearing, waiting for their prey to disclose their presence. A period
of suspense followed, but still the waiting planes--if they were
indeed waiting--gave no indication of their presence.

Presently Cavendish touched his companion on the shoulder.

"Listen!" he exclaimed. "Machine-gun fire!"

"Not the faintest doubt about it, Weeds," rejoined Carfax, as the
staccato reports were borne to their ears. "What's the move?"

At length the destroyers crawled slowly from the fringes of the
smoke-cloud. The moon had risen and the sky and sea were bathed in
brilliant yellow light. Not a sign of the hostile aircraft was to be
seen. Twenty minutes later came the solution of the affair in the
form of a wireless from one of the _Basilikon's_ seaplanes.

"Report engaged unknown hostile aircraft. Two shot down. Rest in
flight. Pursued, but unable to overhaul."




CHAPTER XXIII

At the Admiralty


The news came as a mild surprise to the average British citizen
when, on opening his morning paper, he found that there was actually
another war on--no rumour of impending hostilities, no preliminary
exchange of "Notes", nor even a declaration of war. Hostilities had
taken place between Great Britain and the Republic of Rioguay.

Very few people had as much as heard of that South American state.
Those who did were almost without exception quite in ignorance of
its resources. Even the Cabinet Ministers had to admit that their
information concerning the supposedly obscure republic was vague.
The Foreign Office could supply but little information.

It was War. The Admiralty communiqués reported an engagement off the
north-east coast of South America, but without any details. Already
part of the Atlantic Fleet was on its way to the West Indies to
reinforce the three light cruisers and half a dozen destroyers in
those waters.

Undoubtedly, the Rioguayan Republic had chosen a favourable
opportunity to challenge the British Empire. The Near Eastern
question had cropped up again when the optimists had come to the
conclusion that at last the Balkans were no longer a firebrand.
Consequently, two-thirds of the British navy's capital ships were
tied down to the Mediterranean.

Internal troubles in India and external troubles on her North-West
Frontier were brewing, while both Egypt and the Sudan were in a
state of grave unrest.

Señor Jaime Samuda, President of the Republic of Rioguay, had laid
his plans well. He knew that he had little to fear from United
States intervention. Uncle Sam was at present kept on tenterhooks by
a revival of the Japanese peril, and practically every available
warship flying the Stars and Stripes had concentrated on the Pacific
coast.

He counted on French neutrality, gauging the Gallic attitude by the
events of 1922. Italy did not come into his calculations; but he
reckoned upon German support as far as the curtailed resources of
Germany's armaments permitted.

Altogether the Rioguayan Government had at its disposal nine capital
ships--all of recent construction and heavily armed.

Against these the British Government could show but four or five. Of
the numbers allowed by the Washington Conference, the bulk were "up
the Straits". Of the remainder, two had recently received serious
damage through mutual collision. Their repairs would take at least
six months, provided the workmen employed in the private yards to
which the damaged vessels had been sent would refrain from striking
during that period.

In light cruisers the rival countries were about equal, but as
regards the numbers of destroyers available, Great Britain had a
decided superiority apart from the numerous vessels of that type
required elsewhere. On the other hand, Rioguay was a long distance
from England. The West India station had been neglected and its
resources cut down. The nearest base of any importance was Bermuda,
and even then the dockyard at Somers Island was incapable of dealing
with repairs of much magnitude. For oil fuel, on which the
destroyers depended, there were no British ports in the West Indies
where any large quantities were stored. It meant that the fleet had
to be "fueled" either at neutral ports or by oil-tankers. The latter
required escort as a protection from commerce-destroyers, which
entailed a heavy drain upon the numbers of light cruisers available.

But it was on aircraft that President Jaime Samuda pinned his faith.
He hoped that by means of the efficient machines in the possession
of the Rioguayan Government, the task of extending the scene of
hostilities far beyond the frontiers of Rioguay would be
successfully carried out.

The ultimate hope of Rioguay was the consolidation of several
republics into a United States of South America with resources
rivalling those of the hitherto greatest Powers in the world. For
some undefined reason, Samuda had become obsessed with the idea that
a decisive blow at the British Empire would be an important
preliminary stroke.

Originally, his scheme was to start a campaign against British
mercantile ships, destroying them without leaving a trace. By so
doing he hoped to deal a paralysing blow at a section of seaborne
resources of the British Empire, which the interruption of the
Argentine and Brazilian trade would embrace. There was also a large
proportion of British shipping still making the Horn passage, and
already a number of vessels bound to and from the Pacific had been
sunk.

In following the policy of secret destructive action Samuda also
hoped that suspicion would fall upon certain South American
republics other than Rioguay. His hopes might have been realized but
for the series of engagements following the attack upon the
decoy-ship _Complex_.

The few survivors from the _Cerro Algarrobo_ had "given the show
away". Separately cross-examined, they had admitted their
nationality readily enough. The mere hint that if they could claim
no governmental covering authority for their acts they would be
classed as pirates and treated accordingly, was sufficient to compel
them to hasten to give a full account of the cruise of the ill-fated
_Cerro Algarrobo_.

These facts were communicated by wireless to Bermuda and thence
cabled to the Admiralty.

A Declaration of War--declaring a war that was already in
progress--followed.

That same day, Brian Strong and Peter Corbold landed at Southampton.

Seven weeks had elapsed from the time they crossed the Rioguayan
frontier. The Indians, with whom they had fallen in, had proved very
hospitable and had nursed them both through a bout of fever. On
their recovery, Brian Strong and his nephew were conveyed down the
river in canoes of their Indian benefactors, and eventually reached
La Guayra, the port of Caracas, the Venezuelan capital.

From La Guayra they took steamer to Barbadoes, thence to
Southampton.

The news of the outbreak of war with Rioguay did not surprise either
uncle or nephew, but what did was the bald information that two
British seaplanes had routed six hostile flying-boats. They rejoiced
after the manner of their kind--without demonstrations.

Nevertheless, Brian Strong was puzzled. Although as a patriot he was
elated at the news of the aerial combat, it puzzled him to think
that the Rioguayans had failed to take advantage of the wonderful
machines that owed their existence to his brains.

"It's the human element that counts, all the time, Peter," he
remarked. "If the Rioguayan air fleet doesn't put up a better show
in the future, I needn't have gone to the trouble of bringing this
gadget home."

He tapped his breast coat pocket, wherein lay one of the essentials
of his invention. The others he had also succeeded in bringing to
England in spite of difficulties--the latest being a wordy encounter
with a self-important Customs official at Southampton Docks.

Had the Admiralty permitted a full, uncensored account of the
engagement to become public, Brian Strong would not have been quite
so cheerful. No mention had been made of the disconcerting fact that
the British seaplanes were unaccountably unable to attack the
fugitive _Cerro Algarrobo_. Perhaps the circumstances were deemed
too insignificant to merit notice at Whitehall, but that was not the
view taken by the flying-officers of the seaplanes in question.

Hurrying by taxi to Southampton West Station, Brian and Peter were
just in time to catch a Waterloo express. They dined on board the
train, took another taxi at Waterloo, and gave the driver
instructions to drive to the Admiralty.

They found the buildings besieged by a crowd of applicants of all
sorts and conditions. There were young ex-Royal Naval and R.N.R.
officers offering themselves for active service afloat. Retired
officers, who had been on the Pension List for years were clamouring
for jobs afloat, a few "after soft billets ashore". There were
highly patriotic individuals of the profiteer type ready to prove
their indispensability and secretly hoping that the petty little war
would develop into something big and last for years and years.
Inventors with ideas that were good, and inventors whose suggestions
were of not the slightest use, were in evidence to leaven the lump
that threatened to clog the Admiralty machine.

At length, after an hour and a half of tedious waiting, Brian and
Peter found themselves within the vestibule of the Admiralty.
Without a word, a harassed petty-officer attendant handed Brian
Strong a slip of paper to be filled in.

"Name?"--that was easy enough. "Address?" Brian hadn't one. He was a
wanderer on the face of the earth. He wrote the name of an hotel in
the Strand where he hoped to put up, but up to the present he had
made no attempt to book a room. "Officer required to be seen?" Here
was another poser. At Peter's suggestion, he wrote, "Deputy Chief of
Naval Staff". The last question, "Nature of Business?" was the
pitfall. If he stated too much and claimed too great an importance
of his errand, he would more than likely be "turned down" as an
importunate time-waster. If he merely requested a private interview
without credentials to support his application, he would not stand
the ghost of a chance of stating his case.

He turned appealingly to his nephew. The petty-officer sighed
impatiently. He was not a man to "suffer fools gladly". That sort of
thing becomes boring after years in the Admiralty inquiry bureau.

"Put down 'Applicant late Consulting Engineer to the Rioguayan Air
Board '," suggested Peter. "That will do the trick."

Uncle Brian thought not; it looked too audacious on paper. But it
suggested a line of action.

In a firm, scholarly hand, he wrote:

"Confidential. Applicant for interview landed at Southampton this
morning from Rioguay."

A messenger took the paper slip and departed. Uncle Brian resigned
himself to another spell of tedious waiting. He had vivid
recollections of Government offices in the days of the Great War,
when a caller, no matter how important his business, was handed over
to the tender mercies of a flapper in brown holland, and might, with
luck, arrive at his destination with the last ounce of strength left
in his tottering legs, only to find that after tramping through
hundreds of yards of corridors the person he sought had gone to
lunch.

It came as an agreeable surprise when, in about five minutes, Brian
Strong and his nephew were told that the Deputy Chief would see
them.

Their passes stamped, the two men were escorted by a messenger to a
room overlooking the Mall. Here the naval officer was waiting to
receive them.

Sir John Pilrig was by no means the Sherlock Holmes sleuth-hound
type of man that the nature of his office seemed to warrant. He was
burly, full-faced, with a fresh complexion. His mild blue eyes and
smooth white hair gave him a benevolent aspect, He reminded Peter
more of a Harley Street specialist than a naval officer upon whose
shoulders rested the weight of a responsibility hardly less than
that of the First Sea Lord.

There was no brusqueness in his demeanour. His manner seemed almost
apologetic, but it was evident that he had the art of being able to
obtain information from a person without "rubbing him up the wrong
way".

Sir John showed no surprise at the appearance of his callers,
although their clothes, suitable to the climate of the West Indies,
were hardly _comme il faut_ in Whitehall.

"So you have just arrived from Rioguay, Mr. Strong?" he began. "I am
pleased to meet you. I must confess that my knowledge of the
internal conditions of Rioguay is elementary--I might say vague--and
no doubt you may be able to give me valuable information on several
points. And your friend--was he with you out there?"

"My nephew--yes," replied Brian. "We left Rioguay in somewhat
unusual circumstances by air."

The Deputy Chief did not conceal his surprise; but he merely nodded
an encouragement for Brian Strong to "carry on".

Uncle Brian maintained a full head of steam for quite fifteen
minutes, describing the details of the flying-boat with technical
and convincing accuracy.

"You know a lot of very important information about the Rioguayan
air fleet," observed Sir John.

"Because I designed them," was the astonishing rejoinder.

"H'm," commented the Deputy Chief, without attempting to charge his
visitor with unpatriotic motives. "Then with your technical
knowledge, perhaps you could enlighten me on one point. Apart from
the armour protection of the Rioguayan flying-boats, do they possess
any special means of defence against opposing aircraft?"

"Speed and manoeuvring powers," replied Brian.

"Anything else?"

Brian shook his head.

"Why I ask," continued Sir John Pilrig, "is this: here is a portion
of the report of the officer commanding H.M.S. _Basilikon_. He lays
particular stress upon the fact that when two of our seaplanes were
about to attack one of the Rioguayan cruisers, they were unable to
approach within two miles of her. They simply had to descend through
ignition troubles, but on the hostile vessel increasing her distance
the defect--if defect it could be termed--was no longer in evidence.
That phenomenon occurred on three occasions during that operation."

Peter threw a sidelong glance at his uncle. Brian's face was pale
beneath its tan.

"By Jove, Peter!" he exclaimed. "Ramon Diaz has got to wind'ard of
us. He's stolen the plans of the rays."

"Explain, please," said the Deputy Chief of Staff. In answer, Brian
Strong stopped and undid the fastenings of a leather portmanteau
which, like the haversack, he had so carefully guarded in his flight
from El Toro. From it he drew a complicated "valve set" and placed
it upon the table.

"This, sir," he replied, "is the secret. I had hoped that it was a
secret still, but your information unfortunately leads me to think
otherwise. With an apparatus embodying this invention, I can
truthfully claim to bring down any aircraft in existence. It was my
intention to give my secret to the British Government, and it is for
that purpose that I am here. Unfortunately, it is a secret no
longer. By some means, the Rioguayan Government has acquired the
knowledge and has already put it to practical use."

Briefly, Brian Strong explained the device, giving particulars of
the experimental flight in which Peter had taken a practical part.

"It is, of course, unfortunate," admitted Sir John. "But tell me, in
the event of two opposing forces using a similar device, would the
rays of one affect the other?"

"Undoubtedly," affirmed Brian decidedly.

"Well, then," continued the Deputy Chief of Staff, "the position, I
take it, would be this: the aircraft of both opponents would be
rendered ineffectual. That's something. It leaves the conduct of
operations in the hands of other branches of warfare. In the present
instance--warships."

"Precisely," agreed Brian.

Sir John went to the window and gazed across the Mall, apparently
deep in thought. Suddenly he turned to his visitor.

"If you had an up-to-date workshop and a staff of highly-trained
mechanics at your disposal, Mr. Strong, how long would it take you
to produce a complete apparatus for testing purposes?"

"Two days," replied Brian, without hesitation.

"Excellent," exclaimed Sir John, touching an electric bell. "I will
make arrangements for you to proceed to the naval gunnery
establishment at Whale Island, where all facilities will be
provided. There is one other matter. I trust you will not mind my
mentioning it--the question of funds."

"That's all right, Sir John," said Brian. "I can carry on
without--er--financial assistance for a bit. When the gadget's
proved----"

Sir John let it go at that. He realized that Brian Strong was a man
with high motives, and that discussing money matters was
distasteful.

"I don't care what I get out of the business," declared Brian when
uncle and nephew found themselves crossing Trafalgar Square. "They
can give me what they like, as long as it's not the Order of the Bad
Egg."




CHAPTER XXIV

War in Home Waters


Brian Strong's surmise was a correct one. He had underrated the
craftiness of Don Ramon Diaz, Air Minister to the Government of
Rioguay. Strong mistrusted Diaz. Diaz mistrusted Strong. Each hoped
that the other was unsuspicious. Brian's hasty and daring departure
had removed all shadow of doubt on the Rioguayan's part, but that
did not give him any great concern. What was more to the point,
Ramon Diaz had acquired the secret of Strong's ray apparatus, and
had wasted no time in turning it to good account.

Sir John Pilrig decided that it was a fortunate circumstance, this
interview with a scientist unknown and lacking credentials. Not only
had Brian Strong afforded valuable information, but he had
unreservedly placed his invention at the Government's disposal.
Should the invention come up to expectations--and there was no
reason why it should not, judging by the results obtained by the
Rioguayan flying-boats on the _Cerro Algarrobo_ engagement--it would
reduce the rival aerial forces to a state of stalemate. It was, of
course, unfortunate that the secret was in hostile hands, he mused,
but there was some satisfaction to be derived from the knowledge
that the Rioguayan air forces were not the sole possessors of the
mysterious rays.

And--a remarkable fact, decided the Deputy Chief of Staff--the
inventor had asked nothing, either for himself or his nephew--a
rarity in these days of mercenary offers in the name of patriotism.

By eleven o'clock on the morning following the momentous interview,
Brian Strong, with Peter Corbold as his chief assistant, reported
for duty at Whale Island Naval Gunnery Establishment--an
artificially-constructed island in the upper reaches of Portsmouth
Harbour.

Already a large building had been allocated to them as an
experimental workshop, complete with lathes, benches, moulds, and
drawing-office, with electric light and power, and with a small
staff of armourers and electricians--the pick of the highly-skilled
naval artificers of the Gunnery School.

There, behind closed doors--for no one save the Commodore was
allowed entrance--Brian Strong set to work to reconstruct the device
that, for all time, it was hoped, was to draw the sting from the
terror of the skies.

At 4.45 of the same afternoon, a look-out of the R.N. signal station
at Culver Cliff in the Isle of Wight heard the rumble of distant
gunfire. There was nothing extraordinary in that. Men-of-war
carrying out gunnery practice in the Channel, he decided.

But when, almost simultaneously, he heard the shriek of a
projectile, his interest became aroused. It was part of his duty to
warn ships, when, as sometimes happened, the ricochetting shells
pitched against the chalk cliff, of the possible danger to life and
property of His Majesty's liege subjects.

"Bill!" he shouted to his opposite number, who was industriously
engaged in mending frayed signal flags in the room under the
look-out place. "Stand by to 'oist 'height nought nine'. The
_Spanker_--'er wot went out this mornin'--is a-lobbin' 4.7's
ashore."

Having shared the responsibility of taking action, the signalman
applied his eye to a large telescope mounted on a tripod.

From his elevated post, the look-out hut being 350 feet above
sea-level, the horizon line was roughly twenty-five miles away. The
sea was calm, the atmosphere clear, except for a few patches of mist
that threatened to develop into a sea-fog.

There was but one vessel in sight. She proved to be a tramp bound
up-channel. There were no signs of the light cruiser _Spanker_.

Even as he looked, came another faint report.

The man, by reason of long experience, knew that it was not a
quick-firer. The interval was too great for that. The unusual pitch
of the whine of the projectile puzzled him.

Suddenly a long, low-lying dark object appeared in the field of the
high-powered telescope.

"Gosh!" ejaculated the bluejacket, "s'elp me if she ain't a
perishin' submarine."

Even as he looked, he saw a long, slender object rise from the
for'ard deck of the distant vessel. Slowly but unhesitatingly it
moved until the watcher found himself gazing down the muzzle of a
gun. Instinctively he shut his eyes, forgetting that a distance of
about fifteen miles separated him from that menacing ring of metal.

When he looked again, the gun had been trained to an elevation of
nearly forty-five degrees. There was a flash... thirty seconds later
he heard the report.

Twice more the gun was discharged; then the mysterious vessel
submerged.

The spell was broken as far as the signalman was concerned. Clamping
the telescope, so that it remained trained upon the spot where he
had seen the submarine disappear, he shouted to his mate, who was
leisurely bending the hoist of flags to the signal halliards.

"Belay there," he exclaimed excitedly. "Get on the telephone to the
C.-in-C. There's a bloomin' submarine been shellin' Pompey."

His opposite number looked up languidly and solemnly winked his eye.

"'Tain't the fust of April, mate," he remarked in mild reproof.
"D'ye want ter get me 'ung, or what not?"

Ten minutes later, the Commander-in-Chief at Portsmouth was informed
by wireless telephony from Culver Cliff of something that he was
already well aware of--that five shells had been fired at the
principal naval port of the British Empire. In addition, he learnt
that the shells came from a submarine, nationality unknown,
operating 16 miles S. 1/2 E. magnetic from Culver Cliff Signal
Station.

In a very short time, the Admiral was in possession of material
facts concerning the damage. One projectile had fallen in the
Dockyard, completely demolishing the caisson at the entrance to No.
15 Dock, and severely damaging the light cruiser _Volobus_, which
was undergoing repairs in that particular dock.

Another had hit the seaplane carrier _Furious_, which had recently
returned from the Mediterranean. The shell had descended obliquely,
just in the wake of the conning-tower. Fitted with a delayed-action
fuse, the missile penetrated three decks before exploding in the
port engine-room. The greatest effect of the explosive was
downwards, indicating that it was composed of a substance allied to
dynamite. The double-bottoms and "blister" on the port side were
shattered to a length of fifty feet, pieces of the three-inch
side-armour being torn bodily away. The _Furious_ sank in eight
minutes in seven fathoms.

Shell No. 3 descended on the railway close to Fratton Bridge,
blowing a hole eighty feet in diameter in the railway cutting and
bringing down the bridge. Here, the loss of life was great, for the
bridge carried one of the principal arteries of the town. In
addition, the sole means of railroad communication into and out of
Portsmouth was cut. The most sanguine estimate placed the completion
of the repairs at eight weeks. The remaining two projectiles luckily
failed to do serious damage, one falling in the sea two hundred
yards from the South Parade Pier, the other making a huge crater in
the Fratton Park football ground twenty minutes after a huge crowd
had departed.

The British nation had abandoned its old-established ideas of
insular immunity. The lesson of the Great War, particularly the
German "tip-and-run" raids on Scarborough, Whitby, Hartlepool,
Lowestoft, Great Yarmouth, Dover, and elsewhere, had destroyed the
fetish-like faith in the navy to render our shores inviolate. With a
length of coast-line greater than that of any other country, taken
in proportion to its area, Great Britain offers a decided chance of
success to a daring sea-raider, and even when her fleet was at the
zenith of power and size, the numbers were insufficient to protect
the coast from minor hostile operations without seriously affecting
the striking power of the Grand Fleet.

Thus the news of the bombardment of Portsmouth occasioned
comparatively little surprise, except for the mystery of the affair.
What was the nationality of the enemy craft? From what port did she
come? Was she the emissary of a treacherous European Power, hoping
to take advantage of the external and internal difficulties of the
British Empire to deal a coward blow?

The idea of linking the submarine with the distant and insignificant
Republic of Rioguay, with whom Britain was at war, seemed out of the
question. Yet it was a submersible cruiser seventeen days out of San
Antonio that had thrown out a challenge to the principal naval port
of Great Britain.

Even as a professor of anatomy can reconstruct the skeleton of a
prehistoric mammoth from a few scraps of bone, so can a gunnery
expert decide upon the calibre and power of an unseen and unknown
weapon from a few fragments of its projectile--and with a greater
degree of certainty than in the case of the constructive anatomist.

From available data, combined with information picked up from
examination of such remains of the shells as were recovered, the
experts decided that the projectile was seven feet in length with an
external diameter of four inches; that the weapon was a 120-calibre
gun, with a muzzle velocity of from 3000 to 3500 feet per second and
with an extreme range of fifty-five miles.

It was also established that at a range of twenty-five miles--the
distance between the position of the submarine and the town of
Portsmouth--the projectiles must have attained the extreme vertical
height of eight and a half miles.

In the midst of his labours, Brian Strong was called to the
telephone in the Commodore's office to answer an urgent inquiry from
the Admiralty.

Sir John Pilrig was at the instrument, anxiously inquiring whether
Mr. Strong could give him any information about the Rioguayan
submarines.

"I cannot," replied Brian bluntly. He was not the sort of man to
beat about the bush and try to give the impression that he was in
the position to supply the information. "Aircraft was my line. But
my nephew here can give you particulars."

Peter took his uncle's place at the telephone and described the
submarines he had seen manoeuvring off San Antonio.

"They were possibly instructional craft," he added. "Somewhat
resembling our obsolete C class."

He proceeded to describe the craft in clear technical language,
which compelled Sir John to inquire in what circumstances he had
gained the knowledge.

"I was a sub-lieutenant, R.N., sir," he replied. "Retired under the
regulations for the reduction of personnel."

"Ah," commented the Deputy Chief of Staff. "Very good. I'll ring off
now."

Peter went back to his work.




CHAPTER XXV

Seaplane and Submarine


Two hours after the shelling of Portsmouth by a Rioguayan
submersible cruiser, Southampton was heavily bombarded, presumably
by the same craft. Here, the firing was of a more concentrated
nature, practically all the projectiles falling in the docks,
although an obvious but unsuccessful attempt was made to destroy the
Naval Ordnance Magazines at Marchwood. Southampton, however, escaped
comparatively lightly--few of its prominent buildings were even
damaged, and the toll of human life in the town itself was small. At
the docks, too, the loss of life was not great, owing to most of the
workers quickly finding cover which proved useful against anything
but a direct hit.

Within thirty minutes of this bombardment came telegraphic reports
that Plymouth and Devonport were under hostile fire.

The news had barely reached the Admiralty, when telegrams were
pouring in from Manchester and Liverpool, reporting that both places
had been shelled from an unknown type of craft that had appeared
sixteen miles west by north of the Bar Lightship. In this case, the
firing lasted only a couple of minutes or so, for on the appearance
of an Isle of Man packet-boat the submarine hastily dived. That
pointed to the fact that the crew of the submarine were evidently
"jumpy", otherwise they would not have dived simply because of a
small and unarmed steamer.

   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .

True to his promise, Brian Strong had a complete apparatus ready in
the specified time. In the presence of a number of naval experts,
the device was submitted for trials.

For the sake of secrecy, the apparatus was placed on the light
cruiser _Cariad_, the vessel with the experts on board being ordered
to proceed to a position twenty miles south-east of the Nab tower.

Four modern-type seaplanes from Calshot were detailed to play the
part of hostile aircraft. At the time specified, two of them were
observed approaching from the nor'-east at an altitude of 2000 feet.

The inventor, feeling far from cool and collected, peered through
the telescopic sights. In spite of the fact that the rays had been
proved, he was assailed by doubts. Supposing something--a minute
adjustment--was in error and the device failed? Or if the current
should prove too strong or too weak for the sensitive instrument? He
feared failure, not because the apparatus might be defective, but by
reason of the ridicule that would be hurled at him.

Slowly, Uncle Brian trained the projector, still hesitating. The
nearest seaplane was now a bare two miles away, flying serenely,
almost defiantly, in the cloudless sky.

"Three thousand yards," chaunted the range-finding officer.

Some of the experts shrugged their shoulders. The rays were to be
released at nine thousand yards. For all they knew, the inventor had
done so, but without effect.

At last, with a nervous jerk, Brian Strong depressed the lever
actuating the mysterious current. The leading seaplane held on for
perhaps five seconds, then like a wounded partridge, it began to
dive towards the water. The pilot, retaining his presence of mind,
righted his 'bus and allowed her to volplane, until the inventor
trained the projector upon the second sea-plane.

At the first sign of the ignition being cut out, the pilot banked
steeply. The sudden swerve brought the seaplane outside the
invisible beam. The twin motors picked up again.

By this time Brian had recovered his composure. He was again an
inventor, sure of himself, and tasting in full measure the joy of
achievement, when not a moment before his sensations had been much
like those of a nervous schoolboy faced by a tough "paper", and by
no means confident of the result. The slightest deflection made it
possible for the ray to hold the machine as surely as the spider's
web does the enmeshed fly.

Vainly did the accomplished airman attempt to extricate his machine
from the numbing influence. Looping, banking, attempting a spinning
nose dive, he tried ineffectually to dodge the invisible but none
the less paralysing beam, employing all the artifices of a flying
man who had won experience in that perilous school--the Great War.

It was a gallant struggle. The seaplane--a mere glider encumbered by
the dead weight of a useless pair of engines--was beaten.

The third and fourth shared the same fate, and whilst the four were
resting on the water, the inventor demonstrated the effect of
playing the ray fanwise. The moment one seaplane "started up" she
was rendered powerless by the swift swing of the electric beam.
Another and yet another attempted to rise, but hardly had the
engines fired when they were reduced to a state of silent impotency.

"That gadget will clip the wings of the Rioguayan air fleet,"
exclaimed Sir John Pilrig enthusiastically.

"And the Rioguayans will clip ours," added another Admiralty
official.

"Precisely," agreed the Deputy Chief of Staff. "That wipes the air
menace off the board. Now there are the submarines to be taken into
account. Conditions somewhat different from those during the last
war. S'pose your rays aren't applicable to underwater craft, Mr.
Strong, or have you managed to solve still another problem of modern
warfare?"

Brian shook his head.

"'Fraid not, sir," he replied. "But there's no insurmountable
difficulty, I take it. A submarine's electrical engines ought to be
'shorted' by the rays. The difficulty appears to me to be the
non-adaptability of water to the conditions of a concentrated
current."

"Meanwhile, we just carry on," rejoined Sir John. "After all, we
didn't do so badly with depth-charges and hydrophones.... That will
do, Captain Parr," he continued, addressing the Commanding-Officer
of the cruiser. "There is no need for further trials. Will you
please have a signal sent to the seaplanes to that effect? They can
part company and return to Calshot."

The four aircraft began "taxi-ing" into the wind, prior to "taking
off". To do so, they had to pass to wind'ard of the _Cariad_, and,
when at a sufficient altitude, turn and retrace their course.

"Wireless telephone message, sir!" reported the Yeoman of Signals to
the Captain of the _Cariad_. "Sea-plane reports submarine
approaching within one thousand yards of ship. Request
instructions."

"Port eight," ordered the owner, with the idea of turning the
cruiser so that her stern, instead of her broadside, should present
itself to a possible foe. "Any of our submarines out?" he demanded
of the Officer of the Watch.

"None, sir," was the prompt reply. "All submarines of the Portsmouth
Division were to use the Needles Channel."

"Then heaven help me if she's one of ours," exclaimed the Captain
grimly. "By Jove, won't it make 'em jump!"

He indicated a group of Admiralty experts, both naval and civilian,
gathered round Brian Strong's gadget on the quarter-deck.

Sir John smiled.

"They'd jump still more if a tinfish got us," he added.

The seaplane had already been given orders to attack. It was indeed
a lucky chance that she had left Calshot under active service
conditions. In addition to two torpedoes designed for use against
surface craft, she was equipped with four delayed-action bombs, each
capable of being set to explode at any depth between four and
twenty-four fathoms.

It was with weapons of the latter type that the seaplane was about
to deal drastically with her submerged foe.

The latter was the submersible cruiser that had recently bombed
Portsmouth and Southampton. She was now proceeding up-channel intent
upon causing a little annoyance at Dover.

Unfortunately for her, she was unaware of the presence of the
seaplanes; but she had spotted the slowly moving _Cariad_ and had
marked her down for an easy prey.

The light cruiser had swung gently through eight points of the
compass. Captain Parr had purposely refrained from ordering
increased speed lest the submarine might "smell a rat". On her part,
the Rioguayan craft was not able to gain on the cruiser, but was
hanging on in the hope that the _Cariad_ would again alter helm and
thus present a target that was almost impossible to be missed by the
deadly torpedo. During the conversation between Sir John Pilrig and
the Captain of the _Cariad_, Brian Strong had rejoined Peter, who
had been closely questioned by the experts concerning the
anti-aircraft device.

In complete ignorance of the presence of the Rioguayan submarine,
the group of experts transferred their attention to the seaplane
that had detached herself from her consorts and was now hovering in
wide circles over the clearly-defined hull of her lawful prey.

A dark object dropped from the fuselage, quickly followed by
another, their impact with the water throwing up a tall column of
spray.

"What is that fellow doing?" began Uncle Brian, but before he could
complete the sentence a muffled roar shook the air. A thick cloud of
greasy black smoke shot up, mushroom-shaped... the rush of subsiding
water hurled high above the normal surface deadened the
long-drawn-out reverberations of the explosion.... The _Cariad_
rolled lazily to the wash caused by the violent displacement of
hundreds of tons of water.

It seemed an interminable time before the straight snout and the
net-cutting device of the Rioguayan submersible rose for a brief
interval above the pool of oil--sufficient for the _Cariad_ to
establish the certainty that the craft was not a British one.

The submarine had been hit right aft, the explosion completely
shattering the hull abaft the Diesel-engine room. The for'ard
portion was, however, still practically intact.

The _Cariad's_ engines were stopped. Captain Parr was seemingly in
no hurry to take his ship from that forbidding spot. Nor did he
close in order to drop a mark-buoy over the wreckage.

A quarter of an hour had passed. The seaplanes, their work
accomplished, were out of sight. The light cruiser still lingered.
At the microphone apparatus a grave-faced watch-keeping lieutenant
was listening, and not listening in vain, for auricular evidences of
what was taking place within the as yet water-tight sections of the
submersible.

Suddenly the muffled roar of a second explosion, of lesser magnitude
than that of the first, was borne to the ears of the watchers on the
cruiser's deck and superstructure. A thin cloud of vile-smelling
smoke filtered through the agitated waves and drifted athwart the
_Cariad_.

The Deputy Chief of Staff turned inquiringly to Captain Parr. His
hands were trembling perceptibly and his tanned features had assumed
a greyish hue.

"Well?" he inquired laconically.

"Done themselves in, poor wretches," replied the owner. "They've
detonated the warhead of one of their torpedoes.... Either that or a
lingering death."

The Captain turned to order speed for fifteen knots. Sir John left
the bridge and made his way to the quarter-deck to rejoin his
colleagues.

"That apparatus of yours, Mr. Strong," he observed in level tones,
"is perfectly satisfactory. How many can you guarantee within a
fortnight?"

He paused and laid his hand upon Brian's masterpiece.

"If only you could adapt it for submarine work," he continued, "you
would become the greatest humanitarian of the decade--of the
century. There would be none of that brutal business we've just
witnessed.... Fifty in a fortnight, Mr. Strong? Excellent! Carry on,
and let's have the goods."




CHAPTER XXVI

Orders to Proceed


During the next fortnight, Brian Strong kept his augmented staff
hard at work. Ninety men were employed in turning out numbers of the
apparatus that was to knock the Rioguayan air fleet out of the
running. In three shifts the enthusiastic men toiled, Brian
personally superintending two shifts a day, while Peter was in
charge of the third.

Meanwhile the personnel of the Royal Navy was being strongly
increased. Ex-officers and men volunteered and were gladly accepted.
The fleet reserve was called up, the R.N.R. and R.N.V.R. veterans of
the Great War offering their services in shoals.

The existing ships, even including those hastily brought forward for
commission, were in danger of being over-manned. Owing to the
wholesale scrapping of serviceable warships, there were available
roughly three times the number of trained men actually required to
put every existing ship into commission.

Amongst the ex-officers regranted a commission was Peter Corbold.
Without identifying himself as a relative of the inventor of the
mysterious ray, he had made an application through the usual channel
for service afloat. Now that the apparatus was tested and adopted by
the British Government, he felt that he was no longer bound to
remain an assistant experimenter. But he rather dreaded breaking the
news to Uncle Brian. Peter had a lurking suspicion that it was
hardly fair to his relative.

During a brief spell in the workshops, Peter found an opportunity of
broaching the news.

Uncle Brian listened quietly. Hardly a muscle of his face moved
during the announcement.

"That's all right, Peter," he said, when his nephew had unburdened
himself. "Quite all right, my boy. As a matter of fact, I knew how
keen you were to volunteer for sea service, so I approached Sir John
Pilrig on the subject. You'll find that you'll be appointed to the
_Rebound_ as lieutenant borne for wireless duties."

"Wireless duties!" exclaimed Peter. "Precious little I know about
that."

Uncle Brian winked.

"Camouflage," he rejoined. "You're in charge of the anti-aircraft
apparatus to be installed on board the flagship. It wouldn't do to
let everybody know. In war-time, one must not call a spade a spade.
It must be described by some other name and be disguised to resemble
something that it is not."

Two days later, Peter Corbold's appointment to H.M.S. _Rebound_ was
announced.

The _Rebound_ was a post-war battleship, of 40,000 tons, armed with
eight 15-inch guns, and embodying many details of construction that
bitter experience at Jutland had taught the naval constructor. At
present, she was at Bermuda with the rest of the small, but
efficient, squadron that represented the total available force at
the Empire's disposal without seriously impairing her naval
resources elsewhere.

Diplomacy backed up by the guns of the British Navy had all but
settled the Near Eastern question. British warships on the East
Indian station were an invaluable asset in keeping a vast section of
a fanatical India under control, even though the seat of incipient
disorder was eight hundred miles from the Arabian Sea. A squadron
lying off Suakin and Port Sudan had a salutary effect upon the
fractious dervishes of Darfur and Kordofan; while by the same token
the Egyptian Nationalists were gently but firmly called to order.

The withdrawal of any of these vessels would inevitably result in
wide-spread trouble that would with certainty lead to a world-wide
war. Almost too late came the realization that the drastic
curtailment of the British Navy left the Empire in desperate
straits, with no margin for emergencies.

Meanwhile, the squadron detailed for South American waters had been
held up at Bermuda, pending the arrival of the anti-aircraft
apparatus, which was now being turned out in sufficient numbers to
render the ships invulnerable to the attacks of the Rioguayan
flying-boats.

At length, the initial supply of Brian Strong's device was ready.
The destroyer _Greyhound_ was ordered to proceed with the sets of
apparatus to Bermuda and to take supernumeraries to the fleet.

Amongst the latter was Peter Corbold, with the rank of full
lieutenant.

The voyage out was uneventful. At Bermuda, Peter reported on board
the flagship, which, with the _Repulse_, _Royal Oak_, and
_Retrench_, comprised the capital ships of the small but efficient
fleet that was to try conclusions with the numerically superior
battleships of Rioguay.

Having reported himself to the officer of the watch and been
introduced to the Captain, Peter was escorted to the ward-room. Here
he looked for familiar faces, and he did not look in vain. Amongst
the officers were several who had been in his term at Dartmouth.

According to the custom of the service, newly joined officers are
given twenty-four hours to "shake down". During that period they are
excused duty in order to allow them to become acquainted with the
internal arrangements of the ship.

Peter, with his usual keenness, was making a tour round, under the
guidance of the "gunnery jack", when he was "barged into" by a burly
"two striper", who dealt him a hearty whack on the shoulders.

In the dim light, for the meeting took place in the
electrically-lighted passage between the engine-rooms, Peter was at
a loss to establish the identity of the officer with the boisterous
greeting.

"Mouldy blighter," exclaimed the lieutenant. Then Peter knew.

"Weeds, old son," he ejaculated. "I didn't expect to find you here."

"But I did," replied Cavendish; "heard you were appointed. Saw you
coming up over the side, in point of fact, only I couldn't hail you.
My watch--still on it," he added hurriedly. "See you later, old
thing."

Cavendish, with several of the other survivors of the _Complex_, had
been "turned over" to the flagship on her arrival at Bermuda a week
previously, so that her normal complement was now exceeded. It was
the same with the rest of the fleet. Trained officers and men were
plentiful. The deficiency lay in the number of ships available.

After "seven-bell" tea the chums met again.

"So you're the new gadget expert, I hear," said Cavendish.
"Something that's going to make the Rioguayans feel the breeze, eh?
What sort of 'ujah' is it?"

Peter explained.

"That sounds all right," remarked the sceptical Cavendish. "It's
been tested and all that; but will it stand concussion when we're in
action?"

"It will stand up to it as well as any searchlight," declared Peter.
"While we were testing the gadget an enemy submarine was
depth-charged about three hundred yards off. That was some
concussion! and I examined the apparatus afterwards. It was O.K."

"Nothing like our principal armament firing salvoes," said
Cavendish. "My action station is 13 turret. Where's yours?"

"Fore-top, I believe," replied Peter. "Not sure, though. It depends,
so the Commander informs me, upon the disposition of the little
stunt I'm supposed to be in charge of. When are we going south, do
you know?"

Cavendish shook his head.

"Waiting for the oil-tankers, I believe. And there's trouble with
the _Repulse's_ under-water fittings. We can't go without her.
Dockyard divers might fix up the damage. Wonder if the Rioguayan
navy will come out, or will it act like the Hun High Seas Fleet?
Hello, what's that? General signal."

The two officers were pacing that side of the quarter-deck which was
theirs by custom. The other side was by the same tradition the
owner's.

From the signal yard and almost immediately above their heads a
hoist of gaily-coloured bunting fluttered in the breeze.

It was the signal to "weigh and proceed".

Cavendish gave a low whistle. "What's up now?" he asked.

A messenger from the decoding officer came hurrying aft. The
lieutenant stopped him, and repeated his question.

"They're out, sir," replied the man, saluting. "Enemy have appeared
in force off Barbadoes and Barbuda."

"Good business, Peter," ejaculated Cavendish. "They're raiding. Will
try to bust up Jamaica before they've done. We'll give it to 'em in
the neck."

For the next half-hour a scene of bustling activity took place.
Steam pinnaces were scurrying between the ships and the dockyard,
picking up liberty men, who had been hastily recalled to duty. The
final consignments of urgent stores were being hurriedly unloaded
from lighters alongside the warships. Cruisers and destroyers not
lying at moorings were already shortening cable. Derricks were
swinging in and out as they hoisted the heavy boom-boats. The signal
halliard blocks were _cheeping_ as hoist after hoist of bunting rose
and fell from the ship's upper-bridges; the semaphores waved their
arms with bewildering rapidity as if mutually bewailing their
inability to join in the din. Above all other sounds came the hiss
of escaping steam.

It was a chance--a chance at long odds--but the Admiral was throwing
away no opportunity.

The Rioguayan fleet was out. Possibly in ignorance of the presence
of the British warships concentrated at Bermuda, the Republicans
thought it a propitious moment to carry out a "sweep" amongst the
Windward Islands. At a moderate estimate, they might reach a point
some eight hundred miles from their base at San Antonio. Bermuda was
approximately 1200 miles away from the estuary of the Rio Guaya. The
proposition that confronted the British admiral was the chance of
being able to intercept the enemy before the latter gained the
shelter afforded by the neutral waters of the Republics of San
Valodar and San Benito.

"Do you think they'll fight, sir?" inquired a midshipman, as he
passed Cavendish on his way to the fire-bridge. Cavendish, by virtue
of his having been in action with the _Cerro Algarrobo_, was
regarded by the members of the gun-room as an unimpeachable
authority on Rioguayan matters.

"They probably will," was the non-committal reply.

"Hurrah!" exclaimed the "snottie". "Won't it be something to write
home about!"

Poldene, the Paymaster-Commander, who happened to overhear the
conversation, stopped to speak to the two lieutenants.

"That youngster," he remarked, nodding in the direction of the
receding midshipman, "that youngster is a bit too optimistic. I
wonder whether he'll sing the same tune after the show's over?"

"It'll be a pretty stiff business," declared Cavendish. "Those
fellows fight when they're cornered--fight like a cargo of mad
devils--'specially if they think they're going to win. Spanish
blood, you know."

"They want teaching a lesson," continued Poldene, "and we'll do it.
But, by Jove, I don't mind admitting that I funk going into action."

The Paymaster-Commander wore the ribbon of the D.S.O., awarded him
for a particularly gallant deed at Jutland. He had seen the real
thing, shorn of all the ornamental trappings of glory. A vision of a
shell-shattered battery, tenanted only by mangled human beings and
illuminated by the vivid white glare from a pile of burning cordite
cartridges only three yards distant from the open ammunition
hoist--that was his sole clear recollection of the greatest naval
battle that the world had seen.

No, Poldene did not hanker after another similar experience. One was
enough, more than enough, for a lifetime. Almost without exception,
the older officers and men who had been under fire during the Great
War held similar views. But as the present job _had_ to be done,
they jolly well meant to do it thoroughly.

The British ships had a stupendous task in front of them. Apart from
the disadvantage of numerical inferiority, they were fighting
thousands of miles from home waters. There was no docking
accommodation for the battleships within a few hours' steaming. The
smaller "lame ducks" might be patched up in the neglected dockyard
at Kingston, Jamaica, and also at Bermuda. In either case, it was a
long distance for a shell-torn vessel to go. The wavering neutrality
of San Valodar and San Benito had also to be taken into account. A
slight success of the Rioguayan arms might turn the scale and induce
those two Republics to declare war.

But one thing the Rioguayans had grossly under-estimated--the
character of the man behind the gun.




CHAPTER XXVII

In Action--Fore-top


Eight bells had just sounded off. Cavendish, the officer of the
forenoon watch, had been relieved and was descending the
bridge-ladder, when he ran against Peter Corbold, who, having
completed the daily examination of the anti-aircraft gadgets on
board the flagship, was about to report to the Commander.

"Hello, Weeds," exclaimed Peter. "Nothing through, I suppose?"

Cavendish shook his head.

"Absolutely nothing," he replied. "Patrolling destroyers twenty-five
miles ahead of us haven't reported even a single sail. It's my
belief the blighters have given us the slip and are back in the Rio
Guaya. As for----"

The sentence remained unfinished. A shrill bugle-call rent the air,
its meaning as clear as its note.

"Action stations at the double," exclaimed Peter. "That's business.
S'long, old bird."

The two chums parted company, Cavendish making for B turret, while
Peter, having paid a hurried visit to his cabin for his gas mask,
binoculars, life-saving waistcoat, and emergency ration, began the
ascent to the fore-top.

Here he found two other officers and three ratings; a midshipman
followed, so that seven people were occupying rather cramped
quarters in a steel, roofed-in box, 120 feet above the water-line.

Peter's duties were chiefly confined to taking notes of the
impending action. He was also to keep a lookout for hostile
aircraft. Should any Rioguayan flying-boat appear in sight, he was
to immediately warn the party told off to man the new anti-aircraft
devices. The apparatus, until actually required, was kept below the
armoured deck, whence it could be whipped up into position and
connected with the dynamos supplying the necessary electric current.

It was a weird experience. Viewed from aloft, the fore-deck and
superimposed turrets of the _Rebound_ looked like a model. Even the
enormous beam of the ship--slightly over a hundred feet--was dwarfed
to such an extent that it seemed possible to jump clear of the
sides.

The guns of A and B turrets were being turned with a view to testing
the training gear. Smoothly and easily the enormous weapons, looking
no bigger than twin pairs of lead pencils projecting from an
oval-shaped inverted dish, swung first on one beam and then on the
other; at one moment trained to full elevation, at another depressed
until the line of fire hardly cleared the slightly up-curved
fo'c'sle.

Ten feet above Peter's head the huge range-finder was being adjusted
by a gunnery lieutenant, his assistant standing by with telephones
and voice-tubes ready to communicate with the transmitting station
for "direction" firing.

The wind shrieked through the wire stays and shrouds and whistled
past the now unemployed signal halliards, for the battleships had
worked up to a speed of twenty-two knots. Each ship had hoisted two
battle-ensigns, the wind-stretched bunting presenting the only dash
of colour amidst a general tone of grey.

The four battleships were still in line ahead, the following craft
being almost hidden in the dense cloud of smoke from the flagship's
funnels.

Three miles to port and starboard were the light cruisers, standing
out clearly in the tropical sunshine. Farther away, ahead, astern,
and on both beams, were the destroyers detailed for anti-submarine
work, while two separate flotillas, held in reserve for a torpedo
attack upon the Rioguayan fleet, were almost invisible in the waste
of sun-flecked water.

Broad on the port beam could be discerned the land, San Valodaran
territory. Farther astern the coast-line dipped. The gap was the
broad estuary of the Rio Guaya. The British admiral had got between
the enemy and their sole means of regaining port. Provided he could
head the Rioguayan fleet away from neutral territorial waters, he
knew that there was nothing to prevent his bringing them to an
engagement.

Again and again Peter swept the horizon ahead with his binoculars.
Nothing--not even a blur of smoke--obscured the clearly defined line
which cut sea and sky. But far away out yonder wireless messages
were being sent by the scouting destroyers, announcing with ever
increasing certainty that the enemy was still coming south.

Two bells of the afternoon watch sounded off. Peter could hardly
realize that fifty minutes had elapsed since he ascended to his
eyrie. Surely it was about time, with the rival fleets approaching
at an aggregate rate of from forty to fifty-five knots, that
something was seen of the enemy?

A few seconds later and a triple hoist of bunting crept past the
fore-top. Fifty answering pennants were almost immediately hoisted
on fifty different ships, large and small. Then a burst of
cheering--a huge volume of sound--came from the invisible crews of
the battleships, to be taken up by their comrades in the cruisers
and on until the furthermost destroyer within signalling distance
joined in the roar of appreciation.

It was the Admiral's battle signal:

"Strike hard, strike straight for England."

"There they are, by smoke!" exclaimed one of Peter's companions in
the fore-top.

Peter raised his glasses. With uncanny suddenness, the hitherto
unbroken skyline was dotted with the masts, funnels, and
superstructures of a host of vessels, their hulls still below the
horizon. Approaching each other at the rate of an express train, the
rival fleets were now within visual distance or, roughly, fifteen
miles.

The destroyers that had been on ahead of the battleships, their
mission for the time being accomplished, had turned tail and were
taking station astern. The chance of getting to work with the deadly
torpedo was not yet. Until gun-fire had demoralized the half-tried
gunners of the Rioguayan battleships, it was a purposeless, futile
business to dispatch thinly-plated destroyers against armoured ships
bristling with quick-firers.

Suddenly Peter caught a glimpse of a couple of flying-boats hovering
well in advance of the British ships. Apparently they were engaged
upon reconnoitring duties--for they made no attempt to take up a
position favourable for bomb-dropping.

As a matter for precaution, Peter turned out one of the
anti-aircraft apparatus with its crew, but it was neither the time
nor the occasion to make use of the rays. Had the hostile aircraft
been bombing machines intent upon scoring a hit, the case would have
been different; but they were spotting machines, up to record the
results of salvoes and to acquaint the Rioguayan admiral of the
disposition of the British ships. The light cruisers would deal with
them.

It was the _Cadogan_ that brought her rays into action. Both
flying-boats dropped like shot partridges, recovering in time to
enable them to volplane to the water. Here they drifted helplessly
until a destroyer ranged alongside each in succession, removed the
crews, who did not offer the slightest resistance, and sent the
abandoned aircraft to the bottom.

"Neat work that," thought Peter. "It proves that friend Ramon Diaz
hasn't found an antidote for the rays. Apparently he's satisfied
with stealing Uncle Brian's secret."

Meanwhile the four battleships had deployed into single line
abreast, each with the object of getting its four 15-inch guns of A
and B turrets to bear upon the enemy.

So engrossed was Peter with the little episode of the flying-boats,
that the distant rumble of heavy gunfire--sounding like a subdued
thudding upon a bass drum--failed to attract his attention.

A few seconds later a veritable cauldron of foam, a dozen separate
pillars of spray, announced to him and to a favoured few who could
see what was going on outside the ship, that the action had
commenced by the enemy opening fire. As a gratifying corollary was
the knowledge that the salvo had fallen short.

"Sixteen thousand five hundred," chaunted the range-finding
lieutenant, the moment the battleship had emerged from the slowly
dispersing wall of spray.

"Train fifteen red," sang out another voice in a lower key.

The two for'ard turrets swung a few degrees to the left. The long
lean guns rose slowly, as if roused from slumber.

Again the distant rumble. This time Peter could see the massive
hostile projectiles approaching. The air seemed stiff with them,...
and they were coming _his_ way. Instinctively he ducked behind the
thin steel plating of the fore-top--a protection hardly more
serviceable than brown paper. The beastly shells seemed in no great
hurry.... He could see the bright copper rifling bands on the dark
grey bodies of the projectiles.

"Train twenty-five green," came the clear level tones again.

The _Rebound_ had starboarded helm, and the enemy, instead of being
on her port, were now well on her starboard bow.

With an infernal screech, the salvo trundled past the flagship's
foremast, falling within a radius of fifty yards, a good three
cables' lengths astern.

"Straddled, by Jove!" ejaculated a midshipman with Peter in the
fore-top. "Why the----?"

His question was interrupted by a deafening crash that shook the
tripod mast like a bamboo in a hurricane. The steel platform seemed
to jump bodily. A whiff of acrid-smelling cordite flicked over the
edge of the steel breastwork.

Peter gave a sidelong glance at the midshipman. It was the youngster
who, but a short while before, was gloating over the prospect of
being in action. The boy's face was pale underneath the tan. He
laughed--it was a forced laugh without any ring of sincerity about
it. His heart was doubtless in his boots, but he was making a
gallant effort to get it back into its right place.

Retrieving his binoculars, Corbold brought them to bear upon the
distant target. The terrific concussion was the simultaneous
discharge of the four 15-inch guns of A and B turrets. Already the
salvo was on its way towards a target unseen by the fifty odd men
cooped up within the two turrets. Eight miles away those shells, by
the latest workings of the science of gunnery, were calculated to
fall--and they did.

Through his glasses, Peter watched the receding flight of the huge
missiles, each weighing more than a ton. The impact came. At first
there was little to indicate to the observer's eye that they had
done their work--just a few dark splashes on the light grey hull of
a Rioguayan battleship--no more. But the next instant the scene had
changed considerably. The projectiles had burst, not on impact, but
after they had eaten into the vitals of the enemy ship. Lurid
flashes leapt from her superstructure and from different parts of
her lofty hull. One of her funnels sagged, hung irresolute, and then
crashed across her port battery. Then flame-tinged smoke poured
through a dozen unauthorized outlets. Reeling like a drunken man,
the Rioguayan battleship hauled out of line and disappeared behind
the ship next astern.

By this time the firing had become general. The four British
battleships were letting rip as fast as the loading-trays could
deliver shells and ammunition into the rapacious breeches of the
enormous weapons. The din was terrific, while the vibration was so
intense that the fore-top was shaking and rattling like a
high-pressure engine on a faulty bed.

"Goodness only knows what we're here for," thought Peter, wiping the
cordite dust from his eyes and shaking the beads of salt spray from
the peak of his cap. "Can't see a blessed thing."

He continued to peer out automatically. There was little to be seen,
save when an occasional lifting of the pall of spray and smoke
enabled him to see the flashes of the guns of the _Royal Oak_ and
her consorts. His senses were benumbed by the continuous crashes. He
was no longer afraid. A sort of stolid indifference seemed to take
possession of the fragments of thought left in his brain. The whole
business seemed a ghastly, bewildering nightmare.

A terrific crash, outvoicing every other noise in the pandemonium,
shook the fore-top like a rattle. The occupants, hurled violently,
subsided in a confused struggling heap upon the steel floor. For
some moments they remained prostrate, making no effort to sort
themselves out.

Peter opened his eyes, to close them quickly again. Someone's heel
was beating a tattoo within an inch or so of his nose.

He wriggled clear and sat up. One of the bluejackets, wedged in an
angle of the walls, was mopping the claret that welled from his
nose. The two officers and the midshipman were sorting themselves
out, looking too dazed to understand how they got there and what
they were doing. The second bluejacket was muttering to himself as
he fumbled in his jumper for some article that he had prized and
lost.

"Anyone hit?" bawled Peter.

His words were inaudible, but no one showed any signs of serious
injury. The fore-top was shaking badly--not only through the
continuous concussion, but as if it were no longer firmly secured to
the head of the tripod mast. The small oval aperture that opened
into the principal leg of the tripod, and formed an alternative
means of gaining the deck, was open. Wisps of smoke issued from it.

A man with a bandaged head appeared, squeezing with an obvious
effort through the door. Peter recognized him as a petty-officer
belonging to the range-finding party.

"Fair kippered that way, sir," he shouted. "A perishin' eel couldn't
wriggle through. No, mast ain't carried away quite. 'S got a bulge
in 'er. Lootenant, 'e told me to report verbally that our
range-finder's knocked out, an' all controls smashed up."

Having explained his presence, the P.O. spat on his hands, hitched
up his trousers, and lowered himself over the edge of the fore-top.

Peter, leaning over, watched him grip the rungs on the outside of
the tripod and commence his eighty-odd feet descent. Then something
else attracted the young officer's attention.

All was not well with A and B turrets. They had ceased firing. The
smoke had cleared considerably, but from the riven roof of A turret
a column of white flame was leaping almost as high as the platform
on which Peter stood. He was unpleasantly aware of the heat. The
updraught was like that of a blast-furnace. Someone touched him on
the shoulder. Turning, he saw Ambrose, one of the officers with him
on the top.

"Looks like the _Queen Mary_ stunt," said Ambrose grimly. "We'll be
blown sky high in half a shake."

Peter replied that that possibility was by no means remote. That
white flame came from burning cordite. Once the fire got to the
magazine the _Rebound_ would be blown to smithereens.

"We shan't have to go as far as some of those poor blighters,"
continued Ambrose, with a wry smile. He came of a stock of fighting
men, many of whom had met death with a jest on their lips.

It was indeed a desperate situation. The occupants of the fore-top
were craning their necks over the sizzling flame. Projectiles were
still hurtling through the air. Although the for'ard guns of the
flagship had ceased fire, Q and X turrets were still hard at it,
trained abeam to starboard. Smoke was pouring from the funnels and
enveloping the fore-top. Either the wind had changed, or else the
ship had swung round sixteen points and was retracing her course. At
least, Peter imagined so, until a partial clearing of the smoke
showed that the _Rebound_ was going astern, but still towards the
enemy line. Battered and bruised for'ard, and with her bows well
down, she was still holding her place in the line.

Even as he watched, Peter fancied that the column of white flame was
diminishing. Men, looking no larger than flies, were swarming round
the turret with hoses directing powerful jets of water into the
raging inferno. Steam mingled with the flame. The pillar of fire
wavered, died down, flared up again, and finally went out like a
guttered candle.

Losing all account of time, Peter "carried on"--doing absolutely
nothing. His range of vision was limited, owing to dense clouds of
smoke, steam, and spray. The turret sighters and men at the
rangefinders on the "Argo" towers, could see much better than he,
since the atmosphere was less obscured closer to the waterline and
the opposing fleets had drawn to within torpedo range. As far as
Corbold was concerned, existence seemed to be composed of a
continual roar and vibration, punctuated by deeper concussions that
indicated direct hits from Rioguayan guns. How the battle was
progressing, he knew not. That it was being fiercely contested, he
had no doubt, nor had he that ultimate victory would be with the
ships flying the glorious White Ensign. He was beginning to feel
horribly sick, for in addition to the distracting vibration, a whiff
of poison gas-shell had wafted over the fore-top.

A flash of orange-coloured flame rent the billowing clouds of
acrid-smelling smoke. The light seemed to spring from a source
within a few feet of the tripod mast-head. Actually a 5.9-inch had
glanced obliquely from the hood of B turret and had burst outside
the massive steel walls of the conning-tower.

Again Peter was hurled against the side of the fore-top. How long he
remained there, he had not the faintest recollection. At length he
raised his head. His companions were strangely quiet, except the
midshipman, who was vainly attempting to stifle his groans. There
were jagged rents in the floor and in the sides of the fore-top;
there were also holes punched as neatly as if done by a pneumatic
drill. There were pools, too, of dark sticky liquid....

Peter struggled to his feet, somewhat surprised that he was able to
do so. As far as he knew, he had not been hit. He turned his
attention to his companions. Ambrose was lying on his side, his face
pillowed on his left arm. There was the same grim smile on his face.
He looked to be sleeping peacefully, but it was the sleep that knows
no wakening on this earth. The other lieutenant and the two
bluejackets were simply shattered lumps of clay. Only Peter and the
midshipman were left alive out of the seven, since there was no
trace of the third able seaman.

The snottie looked Peter in the face with eyes that resembled those
of a sheep on the slaughter-block.

"I've stopped one," he exclaimed feebly. "'Fraid it's the last
fielding I'll ever do."

His left leg was completely severed just below the knee, yet Peter
noticed the stump was only bleeding very slightly. The shock had
evidently contracted the torn arteries, but there was every
possibility of a rush of life-blood before very long.

Fumbling with unsteady fingers at his first-aid outfit, Peter
contrived to rig up a rough-and-ready tourniquet. His next step was
to get the wounded lad down to the dressing-station. As far as he,
personally, was concerned, there was not the slightest reason why he
should remain in the wreck of the fore-top. The question was, how
was he to get the midshipman down?

Even had the passage down and within the centre leg of the tripod
been available (which it was not), the small diameter of the shaft
would not have permitted the descent of one man with another
clinging to his back. To lower the snottie was also out of the
question, since the signal halliard nearest the mast had been shot
away and no other rope was available. The only likely way was to
descend on the outside of the mast by means of the rungs provided
for that purpose.

"Can you hang on, do you think?" inquired Peter anxiously.

"I'll have a good shot at it, anyway," was the reply. As a matter of
precaution, the young lieutenant knotted his scarf round the
midshipman's body and his own. Then, heavily burdened, he let
himself down through the jagged gap in the floor of the fore-top
that had once been a trap-door.

Rung by rung he made his way, never once looking down and
religiously adhering to the old sea maxim: "Never let go with more
than one hand or foot at a time."

The eighty-odd feet descent seemed interminable. Momentarily,
Peter's burden grew heavier. The lad's grip, at first so strong as
to threaten to choke him, was becoming feebler. His own leg-muscles
were giving indications of cramp, or else, perhaps, he had received
an injury of which at the time he was unaware. Presently his left
foot, groping for the next rung, failed to find a temporary
resting-place. For the first time in the descent, Peter looked down.
Where a series of rungs should have been, was a gaping void,
encompassed by a saw-like edge of riven steel. In ordinary
circumstances, he could have dropped without risk, since he was only
about eight feet above the boat-deck. But where the leg of the
tripod passed through the boat- and flying-decks was an abyss, out
of which acrid fumes were wafting. A shell that had penetrated the
side had burst on the upper-deck and had blown upwards, completely
isolating the stricken leg of the tripod from the other two decks by
a gap at least fifteen feet across.

"If I cast you adrift, can you hang on for a couple of minutes?"
asked Peter, shouting at the top of his voice above the discordant
din.

There was no response.

The midshipman had lost consciousness.




CHAPTER XXVIII

In Action--'Tween Decks


On parting with Peter Corbold, Cavendish made his way for'ard,
through the battery and out by the armoured door of the screen.
Throughout his progress, he could not help remarking upon the
enthusiasm of the crews of the quick-firers as they cleared away and
triced up the mess-tables and closed up round their guns.

They were the pick of Britain's manhood, for the most part men under
twenty-five, tall, deep-chested, clean-shaven fellows, looking in
their singlets and trousers like zealously-trained athletes.

The battery was in semi-darkness, save for the yellow gleam of the
candles in the battle-lanterns. Oil lamps, for obvious reasons, were
not lighted, while the electric lamps were disconnected from their
holders and stowed away. The lesson of Jutland had shown how
dangerous an electric-light globe can be. The concussion of gunfire
alone will shatter it into a thousand jagged little fragments with
disastrous results as far as the bare feet of the guns' crews are
concerned.

Fire-hoses, sending their jets of water from their unions, lay along
the deck like healthy serpents, ready to trip the unwary. "Present
use" ammunition was stacked in the rear of the guns, ready to feed
their rapacious maws when the order to open fire with the secondary
armament was received. Above the chatter of men's voices came the
rattle of the ammunition cages and the steady purr of the engines
far below the waterline.

"Close up round your guns, my lads," the bronzed and bearded gunner
kept on shouting, "close up and give the greasy swine socks when the
time comes."

Arriving at his action station, Cavendish climbed the short iron
ladder and passed through the narrow doorway in the rear of the
turret. Blades, the officer in charge, gave him a delighted grin.

"No blessed mist this time, Weeds," he observed. "It'll be an
almighty hammering... what's that, Petty-officer?"

"Crew numbered off, sir; all present and correct, sir."

"Very good--test loading-gear. Then stand by."

Blades turned away to watch operations. Cavendish, his work not yet
begun, stood behind the turret-trainer under the sighting-hood.

"Anything in sight yet?" inquired Cavendish.

"Nothing yet, sir," was the reply, as the P.O. stepped aside to
allow his officer to peep out.

Cavendish placed his eyes to the rubber-rimmed periscope. As he did
so, he heard the order given, "load all cages!" The show was about
to open.

He could see nothing but an expanse of sunlit sea and sky. Out there
lay the hostile fleet, but still below the horizon, although no
doubt visible from the fore-top and fire-control platform.

"We'll be firing by direction, sir," supplemented the
turret-trainer.

Even as he looked, Cavendish's range of vision was obscured by a
white wall of spray. The enemy's opening salvo had fallen short.

"Train fifteen red!"

The turret turned smoothly--so smoothly that Cavendish was hardly
conscious of the pivotal movement. The breeches of both weapons sank
gently as the muzzles reared themselves almost to extreme elevation.

The lieutenant moved away from the sighting-hood and watched the
massive steel monsters for the recoil that would announce that the
master-hand well outside the turret had completed the circuit that
would send the mighty projectiles on their pre-ordained flight.

There was a breathless silence, broken only by subdued noises down
in the working-chamber and the crash of a salvo that had passed
handsomely over the ship.

"Train twenty-five green!"

Back rolled the turret until the still silent weapons were trained
on the bearing ordered.

A suspense of a few long-drawn seconds, then with a roar the guns of
A and B turrets spoke simultaneously and with no uncertain voice.

The period of inaction was over.

Recoiling to the full extent of their hydraulic buffers, the huge
weapons jumped forward again into loading-position. Men sprang to
the breech-blocks; a strong whiff of burnt cordite wafted back into
the confined space of the turret. The huge 15-inch projectiles were
rammed home by the mechanically operated rammer; followed the bag
containing the propelling charge; and again the breech-blocks closed
with a deep metallic clang.

A brief pause, and again the pair of guns recoiled.

Apart from watching the turret crew "carrying on" as rapidly and as
smoothly as a well-ordered machine, Cavendish began to feel
decidedly bored. There was a most terrific clamour going on
without--probably the "five-point-fives" of the starboard battery
were getting to work. In that case, he decided, there might be
something to be seen.

He touched the turret-trainer on the shoulder. The man stepped
aside. Cavendish applied his eyes to the periscope. He could see
nothing. Even if the enemy ships had closed to within a few thousand
yards, they were still invisible, for the front glass of the
periscope was blackened and smudged with smoke, oil, and water. The
continuous concussion was positively painful. The noise and rattle
of a dozen pneumatic hammers in a double bottom was nothing to it.

Cavendish had lost all idea of time. He glanced at his wristlet
watch. It told him that he had been in the turret only five minutes.
A second look showed that the watch had stopped.

Just then, Blades, the lieutenant of the turret, caught sight of
him.

"Hello, old thing!" he exclaimed. "You haven't been sent for yet?"

"No," shouted Cavendish in reply. "And don't want to be sent for.
Shows everything's going on all right. I'll----"

A jet of greasy oil forced through a broken gland struck Cavendish
in the face and interrupted his words.

"Faugh!" he ejaculated. "Your beastly turret again."

"Sorry, old man!" replied Blades, apologizing for the misbehaviour
of his beloved "box o' tricks". "'Tany rate, if that's all you get,
you're lucky."

One of the turret guns' crew appeared and put his face close to
Cavendish's ear.

"Message through from Captain, sir," he reported. "'E wants you to
go aft and report, seein' as 'ow the ship's been badly 'it."

The two officers exchanged glances.

"Good old Weeds!" exclaimed Blades. "'England expects', and all that
sort of thing, you know."

"Yes, I know," agreed Cavendish, with a wry grimace.

Turning up his coat-collar, although it was not until afterwards
that he recognized the futility of the action, Cavendish scrambled
out of the turret. Wriggling like an eel and feeling very forlorn
and unhappy out in the open, he slid over and gained the port
superstructure ladder. Cordite-laden clouds were sweeping past him
as the guns of B turret fired simultaneously. He could feel the
blast and the back-draught much too close to be pleasant. A murderer
making for one of the Jewish cities of refuge couldn't have sprinted
in quicker time or in greater funk than he did in his mad rush for
the door of the superstructure--only to find that aperture barred
and bolted.

Hardly knowing how he did it, Cavendish found himself clambering
over the remains of the cutter, his progress hastened by a shell
that burst against the horizontal leg of the tripod mast,
fortunately without carrying it away or bowling the lieutenant over
by the shower of splinters.

Right along the deserted mess deck Cavendish hurried. Here and there
were fairly round holes where projectiles had passed through the
thin steel plating. Soon he located the serious damage; a 14-inch
shell had completely penetrated the armour at the water-line and had
exploded between decks.

The shell had played havoc. The compartment was so full of smoke
that it was impossible to enter without a respirator. A fire had
broken out, the corticine and shattered teak planking allowing it to
get a good hold until the water, pouring in through the shell-hole
every time the ship rolled to starboard, put most of it out. Right
beneath was the after dressing station, already occupied by twenty
or thirty cases, most of them suffering from burns. Through a hole
in the deck, water was liberally flowing in upon the medical staff
and their patients.

Shouting for a fire-party, Cavendish soon had the rest of the flames
under control, the badly damaged hoses notwithstanding. Then came
the task of plugging the shell-hole in the armour plate. This was
accomplished by means of a number of rolled hammocks shored up with
timber.

The lieutenant, finding that nothing more could be done, dismissed
the party and went below the armoured deck to reassure the Surgeon
Commander.

"How goes it?" demanded the Medical Officer.

"Dashed if I _do_ know," replied Cavendish. "I was in too tearing a
hurry. Couldn't see anything if I wanted to. But I know we're
keeping our end up."

"And the enemy?"

"No use asking me," persisted the lieutenant. "I've heard nothing,
seen nothing. You've had a busy time, Doc."

The Surgeon Commander gave a quick glance round the crowded
dressing-station.

"Twenty-eight," he replied, "and every man-jack a perfect brick. Not
a whine amongst the crowd. And some of them are--well--thank God for
morphia!"

He picked up an instrument from the sterilizing bowl and turned
away. Already he had performed five amputations by the light of a
few candle lamps, with the place shaking like a house during an
earthquake, and stuffy with fumes from the shell that had burst on
the deck immediately overhead.

At the head of the ladder, Cavendish was intercepted by one of the
carpenter's crew.

"I've been sent to fetch you, sir," explained the man. "There's a
nasty mess up for'ard."

The lieutenant hurried along the mess-deck, negotiating various
obstacles and passing groups of men "standing easy". Many inquiries
they made of how things were going, but Cavendish, beyond reassuring
them, could give no definite news.

When at length he arrived upon the scene of the damage for'ard, he
looked grave.

A 15-inch shell had penetrated the unarmoured end, twenty feet abaft
the stem, blowing jagged rents in the plating and in places starting
whole sheets of metal from their frames. The cable stowed in the
manger had been flung about like string. A fire had been started,
but had been already got under control by the fire-party, who, under
the orders of the chief carpenter, were endeavouring to plug the
rents with canvas and bedding.

It was a useless task. The sea was pouring in like a mill race,
washing men and gear away like corks. The sunlight was streaming
through the gaps into the smoke-laden compartment, giving Cavendish
the impression that he was in a train about to emerge from a
tunnel--only that the din was a hundred times greater.

The only thing to be done was to abandon this compartment.


[Illustration: "WEEDS! BEAR A HAND!"
                                  _Page_ 275]


The water-tight doors and bulkhead were shored up with kit-bags,
hammocks, and balks of timber. Cavendish stood by and watched as the
bow compartment filled. The barricade bulged slightly. Streams of
water oozed through the started rivet holes in the bulkhead. The
steelwork groaned--but it stood the strain. So far so good.

Telling off a hand to keep watch over the bulkhead and dismissing
the rest of the party, Cavendish made his way to the trunk of the
conning-tower, whence by means of a ladder and a manhole he could
gain the conning-tower itself.

Here he found the Captain and reported the damage. "All right; carry
on," was the response.

The _Rebound_ had stopped and was already losing way. She was so
deep down by the bows that it would have been imprudent to continue
to steam ahead. A destroyer, in obedience to a signal, was alongside
for the purpose of transferring the admiral and his staff to another
ship.

From one of the officers in the conning-tower, Cavendish learnt
something definite. The enemy were in flight. Three, possibly four,
of their capital ships had been sunk. The rest had been badly
mauled. The _Numancia_, which under a different name was at one time
a crack ship of the Brazilian navy, and had recently been acquired
by Rioguay, had been so severely punished that she had surrendered
to the British destroyer _Audax_. The _Audax_ herself was in a
sinking condition, so her commander promptly turned over his crew to
the prize, secured the survivors of the Rioguayan under hatches, and
compelled the republican engine-room ratings to carry on. The
_Numancia_ was thus able to render considerable service to her new
masters by finishing off a pair of hostile cruisers that, although
disabled, were still capable of discharging their torpedoes.

"And you're deucedly lucky, old top," continued Cavendish's
informant.

"I don't see how," rejoined the lieutenant.

"Then have a look at B turret," suggested the other. "That was your
action station, I believe."

By this time the admiral's flag had been transferred.

The Captain and the rest of the conning-tower staff were making
their way to the after citadel, for the ship was gathering sternway.
Although unable to keep her place in the line, she could still
render good service with the guns of Q and X turrets.

As far as the _Rebound_ was concerned, there was a decided lull in
the action. In turning through sixteen points, she had of necessity
lost a considerable distance and was a good five miles astern of the
_Royal Oak_ and the three other battleships.

Cavendish went to the front of the badly damaged fire-bridge in
order to see the damage to B turret. Clouds of smoke, pouring from
both funnels and from a huge rent in the base of the foremost
funnel, were sweeping for'ard. It was impossible to see with any
distinctness.

Descending to the boat deck, the lieutenant noticed that the
inclined leg of the tripod mast was wreathed in smoke, and that the
boat deck all around it had been torn away. A party of marines and
stokers were playing hoses on the smouldering débris, and in answer
to Cavendish's inquiries, replied that the fire was almost out.

"Weeds! Bear a hand, there's a good sort!"

Hearing his nickname shouted, Cavendish glanced aloft. Clinging to
the lowermost intact rungs of the badly damaged tripod was Peter
Corbold, with something looking like a scarecrow lashed across his
shoulders.

"Right-o!" bawled Cavendish. "Hang on a bit. I'll get you down."

"I can hang on for two minutes," rejoined Peter.

Realizing that there was no time to be lost, Cavendish turned out a
party of bluejackets. A block was not to be had, but a length of
two-inch rope was soon forthcoming. A hurried test proved it to be
serviceable. One of the men swarmed up the jagged leg of the tripod
like a cat, regardless of lacerated fingers and ankles. In a few
seconds the rope with a "bowline on the bight" at one end was rove
through one of the rungs above Peter's head. His burden was
transferred to the bowline and lowered away until the unconscious
midshipman was level with the shell-torn boat-deck and dangling in
the centre of the jagged hole.

By the aid of a short length of rope, the snottie was drawn within
arm's reach of three or four bluejackets, and before Peter gained
the deck the lad he had rescued was well on his way to the dressing
station.

"Hit, Peter?" inquired Cavendish laconically, as he noticed the
smoke begrimed, blood-stained face of his chum.

"Don't think so," replied Peter, stretching his arms to relieve the
cramped muscles. "How are things going?"

Except for the funnel smoke and wisps of steam and smoke from a
dozen different sources, the air for some miles around was
comparatively clear. In the distance could be discerned the four
battleships still firing heavily. The hostile fleet, or, rather,
those still flying the Rioguayan ensign, were invisible in the haze
of gunfire.

Away on the port hand was a British light cruiser with a heavy list.
Flames and smoke, were pouring between her funnels. A destroyer was
standing by to rescue her crew. Astern were a couple of enemy
destroyers, badly damaged, but displaying the White Ensign over the
Republican colours. Close to them were the bows of another destroyer
sticking up vertically to a height of about thirty feet above the
surface. Everywhere were large patches of black oil and débris of
all descriptions.

"We've whacked 'em," replied Cavendish. "Come along, old thing, if
you're fit. I've got to look at B turret."

The ship was now making about twelve knots, going astern the whole
time. Most of the crew were on deck to get a well-earned breather
and to watch the progress of the running fight.

Cavendish stood stock still when he caught sight of what had been
his action station. B turret was completely out of action. Only a
few minutes after he had been sent aft, a 15-inch projectile had
landed squarely on the face of the turret below the sighting-hood.
Penetrating the 11-inch armour, it had burst with devastating effect
in the confined space of the turret. Several massive steel plates
had been dislodged from the roof of the hood; the two 15-inch guns
had been displaced from their mountings, with their muzzles resting
on the deck. Those of the crew who had escaped from the direct
explosion of the shell were killed by the ignition of a couple of
cordite charges. The resulting fire was the one Corbold had seen
from the top. Fortunately the men filling the trays at the foot of
the ammunition trunk realized the danger of the down-blast and,
acting on their own initiative, flooded the magazine.

When Peter and Cavendish arrived upon the scene, smoke was still
issuing from the roof of the turret. Fire parties were at work with
hoses, pouring volumes of water into the shell-wrecked charnel-house
that had not long since been tenanted by thirty officers and men.

For the present nothing more could be done.

Suddenly Peter gave a glance to the west'ard. The sun was on the
point of setting.

"By Jove," he exclaimed, "I thought it was nearly time for
seven-bell tea, and it's close on four bells in the first dog. Let's
get some grub."

"Right-o!" agreed Cavendish soberly, for he was still thinking of
his late comrades of B turret. "Let's. We mayn't have another
chance, 'specially if we go into action during the night."




CHAPTER XXIX

After the Battle


A buzz of voices greeted the ears of the two chums as they "blew
into" the ward-room. The first lieutenant, the engineer-commander,
three or four watch-keeping officers, the padre, and the surgeon had
foregathered to partake of a "stand-up" meal. The commander, having
swallowed a cup of cocoa, was making for the bridge, with the
remains of a half-consumed bully-beef sandwich in his bandaged hand.

"Hardly knew we were in action," declared the engineer-commander.
"Once or twice, perhaps, when we were hit by shells; otherwise, we
might have been on steam trials for all we knew."

"Gave the blighters a bellyful, anyway," observed one of the junior
lieutenants. "My gun was out of action five minutes after the
battery opened fire. Not half a mess. Looked out and saw an enemy
battleship blow up. Seemed slow work, but it really didn't last
fifteen seconds."

"I saw her, too," added another. "The wreck of her standard compass
landed on our quarter-deck. Hanged if some marines didn't clear out
of the battery and start picking up the bits for souvenirs. Hello,
Weeds, back to your little grey home again, I see. What were your
impressions, old lad?"

"Noise," replied Cavendish. "Had enough to last me a lifetime, so I
came down here for quietude and find none."

Which went to show that Cavendish, usually a jovial soul, was
decidedly "mouldy". Now that this phase of the action was over, his
nerves were very much on edge.

As for Peter Corbold, he was as yet hardly able to realize his
surroundings. He could hear people talking, but their voices seemed
far away. His head was buzzing like a top. His throat was dry and
parched. He was hungry. Yet, somehow, now that food and drink were
available, he made no immediate effort to satisfy the inner man.

The ward-room had come off lightly. There was one hole in the side,
apparently made by a 6-inch. The missile had glanced off the fore
transverse bulkhead and had brought up against the fore-and-aft
bulkhead separating the ward-room from the half-deck lobby. In its
course the shell, which luckily did not explode, had completely
gutted the piano, although the front of the already sorely-tried
instrument showed no signs of internal disarrangement.

There were no settees or chairs. Down the centre of the room was a
trestle table hastily rigged up by the mess-room servants. On it
were enamel cups and plates, open tins of bully beef, bread and
butter, and two iron kettles filled with hot cocoa, The ward-room
crockery was no more.

"You'll have to buck up, Soldier, and replenish our mess traps,"
remarked the doctor to the captain of the marines, who held the
honorary yet responsible position of Mess President.

"We'll have to wait till we go home for that, M.O.," replied the
marine officer, "unless we loot the official residence of the
President of Rioguay."

"When are we going home, anyway?" inquired the Chaplain. "We can't
barge about here, drawing thirty-eight feet of water for'ard, and
there are no docks available out here."

"If you don't know, Padre, who does?" rejoined the First Lieutenant
grimly. In other circumstances, the jest would have raised a general
laugh, but no one even smiled.

The Senior Medical Officer pushed aside his plate. As he moved, the
smell of iodine followed him.

"Must see the Owner," he announced. "He wants a list of casualties."

"What is the butcher's bill, M.O.?" asked the Engineer-commander.

The surgeon shrugged his shoulders. Of all the ship's company he was
perhaps the best able to estimate war at its true value. Without
providing the excitement of combat his work brought clearly before
him just those nerve-racking details which the fighting man himself
is too busy to realize until such time as they cannot influence his
conduct.

"Heavy," he replied. "Very heavy. Some people are fond of telling
you that war is one remedy for over-population. It is: only it
starts at the wrong end. The weakling and the man who has enjoyed
life go scot-free, or nearly always, while youth and strength pay
the toll."

"S'pose it's the same with t'other side," observed "Jimmy the One",
after the M.O. had gone. "That pot-bellied bald-headed president of
theirs tells 'em to go and get killed, and they do. Dash the
Washington Conference, say I. If we'd a navy--an incontestably
strong navy--President Jaime Samuda wouldn't have dared to declare
war. We're winning, but look at the price we've paid--our ship
alone."

"Sooner we get back to a Two or even a Three Power standard, the
better for everybody," added the Chaplain. "'Defence, not defiance',
you know. A big navy is synonymous with security; a small
navy--well--a big casualty list, and I've seen enough of a
dressing-station to-day to make me plump for an Umpteen Power
Standard."

"And what's your opinion, Padre, about disarmament?" inquired the
Engineer-commander. "Only the other day, when we were lying at
Bermuda--after ye with the butter, Weeds, old son--at Bermuda, you
remarked--hello! there's action stations!"

The shrill notes of a bugle had the effect of clearing the ward-room
almost as quickly as if a hostile shell had made a sudden and
unexpected entry. In double quick time the already battle-worn
officers raced off to their respective posts.

"It's 'hands to night defence'," corrected Cavendish, as the two
chums gained the quarter-deck. "Well, thank goodness we're in the
same watch-bill. It's going to be a sticky night."

Their station was on the fore-bridge, which, since the ship was
going astern, corresponded to the after-bridge. Here, Cavendish was
in charge of the searchlight party and the light quick-firers.
Corbold's task was to take charge of the hands told off to work the
anti-aircraft ray apparatus, since it was quite possible that the
Rioguayan air fleet would attempt to make good the disaster to their
surface ships.

But nothing of the kind happened. No hostile flying-boat was
reported. Neither were the enemy submarines in evidence, although
several of the crippled British light cruisers and destroyers
offered an easy target in the bright starlight of the tropical
night.

Away to the north-west flashes of gunfire were still visible, while
now and again far-flung bursts of flame indicated the business-like
activities of the British torpedo craft in the same quarter.

Nevertheless, it was not all watch on board the _Rebound_. Work was
the principal order of the night. Certain repairs had to be put in
hand forthwith; others less urgent had to wait, while much of the
damage was beyond the resources of the ship and would have to be
deferred until she was in dockyard hands. But before dawn, the
débris had been dumped overboard. A turret, which had been jammed at
the same time that B turret was knocked out, was again in fighting
trim. The rents in the two funnels were patched, thereby freeing the
ship from the danger and inconvenience of spark-laden smoke sweeping
for'ard along the boat deck. The damaged tripod mast was
strengthened by means of steel rods and booms "woolded" with fathoms
of flexible steel wire and light chain. Electric-light circuits and
pipes belonging to the Downton pump system had been repaired and the
wireless aerials renewed.

The _Rebound_ was no longer cut off from the rest of the world and
the fleet in particular. It was now possible to receive a fairly
accurate account of the battle. The remnants of the Rioguayan fleet
had gained Venezuelan territorial waters, and were creeping within
the three-mile limit towards their base. Every vessel flying the
Republican colours was carefully watched over by the British light
cruisers and destroyers, ready, should the enemy vessels
incautiously go outside the limit of neutral waters, to "slap in a
mouldy" (torpedo) or to open fire. Throughout the night, the course
of the demoralized Rioguayan ships was carefully checked by scores
of British sextants, while gunlayers stood by with fingers itching
to press firing trigger, and leading torpedo-men lingered longingly
over the "bar" by which the deadly Whitehead was dispatched on its
errand of death and destruction. The Rioguayan battleships had put
up a good fight at the commencement of the action. Confident in
their superior numbers, they fired salvo after salvo with
commendable accuracy; but when the British shells began to find
their target with a skill and rapidity that was an eye-opener to the
Republican crews, the _moral_ of the Rioguayans simply vanished.

Of their capital ships, two were blown up by gunfire, three were
torpedoed and sunk, two were captured, although of these one was in
a sinking state and had to be abandoned by her prize crew during the
night.

Their light cruisers had come off lightly, for directly the
Rioguayan battleships turned sixteen points and fell back, they
played for safety, steaming off at full speed to the nor'ard.
Nevertheless, three had been overhauled and sunk by five light
cruisers of the D class.

Amongst the hostile destroyers the losses were also slight, for
they, too, were broken reeds. One flotilla did, however, attempt a
night attack upon the severely-punished British battleships, but was
driven off by the supporting light cruisers and destroyers with a
loss of six out of the fourteen craft originally comprising the
flotilla. It was already perfectly clear that President Samuda's
plans for the future greatness of Rioguaya--and incidentally of
himself--stood a particularly poor chance of ever being realized if
they depended for success on naval supremacy.

On the British side the losses were heavy, but confined chiefly, as
far as ships were concerned, to the light cruisers and destroyers,
which pushed home the attack with a dash and daring worthy of the
traditions of the senior service. All the battleships had survived
the action and were still capable of dealing hard knocks. The
_Rebound_ had been seriously damaged; the _Royal Oak_ had received
three big shells just above the waterline, but, although listing to
starboard, was able to maintain her station. The _Retrench_ had
practically all the guns in her battery on the port side put out of
action, but her turret guns were undamaged. The _Repulse_, on which
the dockyard staff at Bermuda had set right her defects in time for
her to take her place in the line, had both her bows and stern blown
away as far as the 4-inch armoured belt. Her mainmast had gone by
the board. Altogether, she looked a wreck, but the damage hardly
impaired her fighting qualities, the ship being quite tight below
the water-line and her armament intact.

The losses in personnel were great: 1015 killed and 622 wounded. Of
these, the casualties on board the _Rebound_ accounted for 125
killed and 82 wounded. The excess of fatalities was a clear
indication of the destructive power of guns. Wherever a heavy shell
burst it killed everyone within the battery or turret. The wounded
were mostly hit by fragments of flying metal at a considerable
distance from the point of impact, or were severely burnt by fires
that broke out simultaneously in different parts of the ship. Only a
very small percentage received slight wounds. Except on board the
destroyers and light cruisers, there were no casualties from the
enemy quick-firers, the missiles failing to penetrate the armoured
parts of the ship. It was a stiff price to pay, and the task of
subduing the Republic of Rioguay was not yet accomplished. There
were still the Rioguayan flying-boats and submarines to be taken
into consideration. Britain's capital ships, though few in number,
had vindicated themselves against superior numbers of hostile
surface ships. Would they be able to confound the enemy and the
critics who so loudly declared that the day of the big battleship
was over, and that air-power would overwhelm the long-standing might
of Britannia's trident?




CHAPTER XXX

The End of the Rioguayan Air Fleet


Grey dawn revealed the battered _Rebound_, still steaming
stern-foremost, within the wide estuary of the Rio Guaya. Four miles
to the west'ard lay her three sister-battleships, with their
attendant light cruisers and destroyers, awaiting daybreak before
pushing on up the broad river as far as they could without violating
the territorial waters of San Valodar and San Benito.

There was a widely expressed hope amongst the officers and crew of
the British fleet, that one of these republics would throw in her
lot with the enemy. That would leave the admiral a comparatively
free hand, since he would no longer be obliged to respect the zone
over which either San Valodar or San Benito claimed jurisdiction. As
things stood, there was a curious anomaly. The Rioguayan fleet had
the right to the free use of the river below Sambrombon Island,
although both passages were controlled by neutral states. Until the
British fleet could contrive to obtain sanction, they were unable to
proceed much farther without causing an international affair which
might call for protests from the Powers.

The British air squadron attached to the fleet was also unable to
approach Rioguayan territory, owing to the republic's possession of
Brian Strong's anti-aircraft rays. On their part the Rioguayan
flying-boats were useless against the British fleet, armed as it was
with the ray-projecting apparatus.

The only course open, apparently, was to blockade Rioguay by sea,
but this promised to be a most unsatisfactory operation. The
republic was practically self-supporting; it could still maintain
trade with the neighbouring republics despite any active
interference on the part of the British navy.

The defeat at sea hardly troubled President Jaime Samuda. It was a
regrettable occurrence, from a national point of view, but he still
hoped for great things from the powerful aerial armada of the
republic. Even if air-power failed, he could still hope that the
ineffectual blockade would be maintained until either the British
got tired of "watching the mouse-hole", or else became involved in
embarrassing complications elsewhere. His own position seemed so
secure that never for one moment did President Jaime Samuda think
seriously upon the possibility of a revolution.

Corbold and Cavendish had completed their "trick", Their reliefs had
taken over and they were on their way below to enjoy a well-earned
sleep.

Just as they were about to enter the battery door, there was a shout
of "periscope one point on the starboard bow!" For the present, the
stern of the ship was considered to be the bows for manoeuvring
purposes, consequently the starboard side became the port and vice
versa.

The two chums ran to the rail and, leaning out, could discern the
object in question at a distance of about two hundred yards from the
ship.

There was no time to be lost. The Captain on the bridge had to
decide quickly. Checking his first impulse to ram the submarine--he
remembered the possibility of having the propeller blades smashed
and the rudder buckled--he bore away a couple of points, at the same
time ordering the Q.F. guns to open fire.

A moment later he countermanded the order, for a destroyer,
observing the pole-like object in the slanting rays of the early
morning sun, starboarded helm and charged straight for the
periscope.

Her youthful lieutenant-commander, in his zeal, had but one
thought--to smash the submarine's hull with the destroyer's
knife-like stem before the former could fire her torpedo at the
increasingly favourable target that the _Rebound_ was momentarily
presenting.

In vain the battleship signalled to her to stand clear and destroy
the periscope by means of gunfire and then finish off the blinded
submarine with depth-charges. All on the destroyer's bridge had eyes
for nothing but the hostile periscope.

The _Rebound_ could do nothing, Already the destroyer was masking
her quick-firers. A warning blast from the syren did attract
attention, but only when it was too late.

The destroyer's bows hit the periscope fairly and squarely. There
was no rending of steel, no release of air and oil from the
submarine, for the simple reason that there was no submarine there.
The periscope was a dummy, but to it were attached two mines by
means of long spans of wire.

Five seconds later, the mines, swung inwards by the strain upon the
spans, exploded simultaneously on either side of the destroyer.
Before the upheaval of smoke and spray had dispersed, the luckless
destroyer had vanished, leaving half a dozen men swimming aimlessly
in an ever increasing pool of oil.

Up dashed another destroyer, the survivors were picked up, and the
little craft hurried on ahead of the battleship, with paravanes
towing in order to detonate any other mines that might be in the
vicinity.

The lesson, obtained at a price, was not thrown away. It proved that
the Rioguayans had not resolved to defend the river by means of
submarines, otherwise they would not have indiscriminately sown
mines which would prove a menace not only to the British surface
craft but to their own submarines.

"Ain't ours a nappy 'ome?" inquired Cavendish, as the two
lieutenants surveyed the remains of their cabins, which before the
action had adjoined each other. Now they were knocked into one. That
saved the trouble of Cavendish having to open two doors when he
wanted to "kag" with his chum; but the removal of the bulkhead did
not end the damage. Both cabins had been completely gutted. Although
the blackened débris had been cleared away, the nauseating smell of
burnt corticene hung about persistently. Scuttles and dead-lights
had disappeared, and although the ragged apertures where they had
been were covered with iron plates bolted to the side, there was a
distressing lack of light and fresh air. Neither officer possessed
any clothes other than those he stood up in, and they were showing
considerable evidence of the ordeal through which their wearers had
passed. Until the _Rebound_ put into port, the chums would have to
depend upon the generosity of their brother-officers for the
replacement of deficiencies in their wardrobe; and as almost every
officer on board had suffered loss of personal gear, there looked
like being a stupendous famine in the clothing line before very
long.

A visit to the bathroom revealed an equally unsatisfactory state of
affairs, no other washing arrangements being available than a metal
hand-basin and a meagre supply of cold water.

But in less than ten minutes, Corbold and Cavendish, with most of
the dirt and grime removed, were sound asleep on strips of canvas
laid upon the floor of their respective cabins.

They were awakened at eight bells (noon) by tremendous rounds of
cheering. Officers and crew had fallen in by divisions on the
quarter-deck, where a wireless message from the Admiralty was read
out, congratulating the fleet on its brilliant achievement.

My Lords had lost no time in broadcasting the news of the victory.
There was no halting, beating-about-the-bush wording. The victory
was claimed, our losses and those of the enemy given, together with
the information that the remnants of the Rioguayan ships were in
full flight.

The moral effect of this _communiqué_ was tremendous. It helped
materially to settle certain Eastern problems, and that so quickly
that the Admiralty were able to order five capital ships with light
cruisers and destroyers to leave the Mediterranean for South
American waters.

Peter and his chum were too late to hear the Admiralty order read
out, but on the cheering dying away the Captain raised his hand for
silence.

It was indeed momentous news that followed.

Hondo, a powerful Asiatic State, had suddenly made war on the
Associated Republic of America. The navy of the latter had been
concentrated on the Pacific coast, but the points raised in the
dispute seemed to have been satisfactorily settled. Then the wily
Asiatics struck suddenly and struck hard. The Associated Republic's
combined squadrons ran full tilt into a mine-field laid off the
Mexican coast, Eight of their battleships, four battle-cruisers, and
numerous smaller craft were destroyed, and in the confusion that
ensued the Hondese submarines followed up the blow by torpedoing
another half-dozen big ships. The remainder scattered, some running
for the Panama Canal, others making for San Paulo. The latter place
was bombarded by Hondese battleships and aircraft, while other
aircraft had played havoc with the Pacific ports of the Republic.

Already the Associated Republican Government had applied to Great
Britain for aid.

The latest report stated that Great Britain was unable to render
assistance, owing to the pressing claims upon her limited navy; but
she suggested a conference--a conference, when the Hondese were
actively hammering upon the Pacific gate of the Associated Republic!

Having communicated this startling information, the Captain ordered
"Pipe down" and the crew dispersed to their various stations to
discuss and argue further about the matter.

The general opinion amongst the officers was that the Associated
Republic's predicament was Britain's opportunity, as far as Rioguay
was concerned. The Monroe Doctrine would become a "wash out". There
was nothing to prevent the British admiral sending an ultimatum to
the Republic of San Benito demanding right of way through her
territorial waters to precisely the same extent as the Rioguayan
Republic enjoyed it.

This demand was sent. San Benito acquiesced in a very chastened
mood. She had read and accepted the lesson of the Writing on the
Wall.

Meanwhile, oil-tankers had replenished the fuel supply of the
British warships. The _Egmont_ and _Edgcumbe_, battle-cruisers, had
arrived hot-foot from Malta, and the fleet was now ready to bring
President Jaime Samuda to heel.

On the evening before the day fixed for the fleet to ascend the
river and attack the batteries and naval port of San Antonio, Peter
was keeping middle watch.

All around, in steadily increasing numbers, lay the fleet, silent
and vigilant. Not a light was visible, save when a masthead signal
lamp winked its message either to or from the "flag". Even the
searchlights were screened, since the navigable channel well above
the anchorage had been heavily mined against the chance of a
surprise attack by hostile submarines. As for the Rioguayan
destroyers, these were ruled out of count. Their experience during
the battle had so shaken the _moral_ of both officers and men, that
they absolutely refused to come out, and had in consequence been
ordered by President Jaime Samuda to form a shore-defence corps.

Pacing alertly up and down the bridge, Peter was approached by a
yeoman of signals.

"Message from Flag, sir," he reported.

The lieutenant took the signal pad into the chartroom. Then he gave
a low whistle.

The sensitive microphones on board the _Royal Oak_ had detected the
approach of a large number of aircraft, bearing north-west by north.
That meant that, assuming the aircraft were the Rioguayan
flying-boats, the hostile forces had made a wide detour and were
approaching over San Valodarian territory.

"Now we're going to see something," commented Peter, as he passed
the message to a side-boy to convey it to the Skipper.

The rest of the fleet had been simultaneously warned by General
Signal. Every searchlight was "running", although carefully
screened; and in conjunction with each searchlight was a "Strong"
anti-aircraft projector.

As a precautionary measure, the crews of the quick-firers were
called to action stations, but already there was sufficient
confidence in the rays to warrant the assumption that the
forthcoming task would not require the aid of gunnery.

Throughout the darkened fleet an uncanny silence prevailed. The
night was starless. There was a flat calm. The conditions for
microphone detector work were excellent.

Nearer and nearer came the hostile flying-boats, their direction and
distance being so accurately recorded that they derived no advantage
by delivering a night attack.

At length the dull rumble of their propellers became faintly
audible. In spite of devices calculated to muffle the noise, it was
impossible to smother the beats of fifty or sixty aerial propellers
working in unison.

"Bearing 55 degrees; elevation 22 degrees," announced the
range-finding, officer at the searchlight director station.

Then, fifteen seconds later: "bearing 60 degrees; elevation 25
degrees."


[Illustration: A BLAZE OF DAZZLING BEAMS
                                  _Page_ 297]


Not until the elevation increased to 30 degrees were the
searchlights to unmask. The period of suspense seemed interminable,
although the flying-boats were known to be approaching at well over
a hundred miles an hour.

"Bearing 90 degrees," came the level, even tones of the
range-finding officer; then in a louder voice that seemed to
indicate that a slow job had at last been completed: "Elevation 30
degrees."

Within the space of five seconds, every searchlight of the fleet was
flashed obliquely into the darkness. The air was one blaze of
dazzling beams, spread fanwise lest any daring and cunning airman
should attempt to approach from an independent direction.

Eight miles off could be discerned the almost mathematical formation
of the hostile air squadrons. They wavered when the beams fell
athwart their path, which was probably owing to the pilots being
temporarily blinded by the sudden glare. Then they recovered
formation and came on.

A red rocket soared skywards from the flagship. It was the signal to
let loose the rays.

To the onlookers it seemed as if a flight of plover had been raked
by the heavy charge from a punt-gun. The massed flight broke its
ranks. A few of the flying-boats held on, the majority simply
nose-dived. A few were crashed into by those following. Others
recovered sufficiently to plane down, remorselessly followed by the
beam of a searchlight until they dropped helplessly upon the surface
of the river.

One by one, those who at first had evaded the blighting rays were
"picked up" by the searchlights and compelled to volplane. In less
than thirty seconds silence brooded over the now crippled aircraft
where a short while before the roar of two hundred powerful engines
had rent the air. And within the space of another three minutes
fifty flying-boats were either resting upon the water or were lying
ten fathoms beneath it, all within a radius of a mile and a half.

Another signal issued from the _Royal Oak_. A flotilla of fifteen
destroyers in double column line ahead swung round under the lee of
the battleships and darted towards the paralysed flying-boats.

Not a shot was fired. The Rioguayan airmen refrained because they
feared the consequences--the British gunners, because their foes
offered no resistance.

With typical imperturbability, the skippers of the various
destroyers manoeuvred alongside their prey. The Rioguayans were
peremptorily ordered on board and sent below. Then a few blows with
a hatchet were sufficient to start the steel plating of the
all-metal aircraft and send them to the bed of the river. Out of the
fifty flying-boats, five were reserved as prizes. The rest were
scuttled, since the British admiral had no means of sending the
whole of the captured air fleet into harbour.

It was a glorious triumph for Brian Strong's inventive genius.




CHAPTER XXXI

Peter Goes Ashore


At dawn the British fleet began to ascend the river to carry
hostilities into Rioguayan territory. The van of the fleet consisted
of a number of West Indian motor fishing-boats, provided with
paravanes and other countermining devices. These boats, belonging to
patriotic owners in Jamaica, Trinidad, St. Vincent, Barbadoes, and
Barbuda, had been offered to the British admiral, who, realizing
their value, had gratefully accepted them.

They were manned entirely by volunteers from the fleet--men who knew
the danger but did not hesitate to risk their lives for their
comrades.

Following the sweepers came the battleships, cleared for action.
Hard on their heels were three flotillas of destroyers, ready should
occasion arise to dart past the lowering hulls of the battleships,
and deal effectively with any hostile craft that might pluck up
sufficient courage to attack. The light cruisers came next,
escorting a huge airplane carrier, although no attempt had been made
to use any of her brood for reconnaissance or bombing work, She was
like a "back-number" veteran amongst a crowd of athletes.

Astern of the light cruisers were the fleet store-ship and
oil-tankers, while in the rearguard were more destroyers and half a
dozen "coastal motor-boats" that had come south from Halifax on the
decks of two fleet auxiliaries.

The passage between the Island of Sambrombon and San Benito was
accomplished without any sign of resistance. It had been expected
that the enemy would train their anti-aircraft rays upon the
motor-craft, since their magnetoes would be affected in a similar
manner, but unaccountably the Rioguayans made no attempt to do so.

At length the fleet came in sight of San Antonio, and consequently
well within range of their 15-inch guns. From the yard-arm of the
_Royal Oak_ a hoist of bunting fluttered.

"Flag making our number, sir," reported the chief yeoman to the
officer of the watch of the _Rebound_. The "answering pennant" was
hardly up before the _Royal Oak_ semaphored:

"Flag to _Rebound_. Lieutenant Peter Corbold to report on board as
soon as convenient."

Peter was given the message. He guessed what was "in the wind" and
hastened to obey. "As soon as convenient" meant, he knew, in naval
parlance "as sharp as you jolly well can, and the quicker the
better". Rigged out in a white drill tropical uniform lent by a
brother officer who luckily had lost only a small amount of kit
during the action, Peter went over the side into the waiting
picket-boat and was soon on his way to the Flagship.

"I have selected you, Mr. Corbold," said the Admiral in his usual
style of coming straight to the point, "to be the bearer of this
letter to the President of Rioguay, since, I believe, you speak the
language and have been a resident in Rioguay, You will wait till
noon for a reply. The ultimatum is unsealed. Read it, and make
yourself acquainted with the terms."

Peter did so. The British ultimatum was brief and emphatic. It
demanded the unconditional surrender of San Antonio, with all
warships, forts, military, naval, and aircraft stores and equipment.
No hostages were demanded, and a promise was given that private and
civil property would be strictly respected. The question of
indemnities with respect to the wanton destruction of British
mercantile shipping would be impartially dealt with at a later date.
Failing an acceptance of the terms by noon, the port and fortified
positions of San Antonio would be bombarded at 3 p.m.

The ultimatum was then sealed and again handed to Peter for
delivery.

Five minutes later, the envoy was in the stern-sheets of the
picket-boat on his way to San Antonio. He was unarmed, as were the
crew. From the jack-staff in the bows was displayed a large white
flag.

It was a good half-hour's run to the naval port landing-steps. The
picket-boat was not fired upon, although Peter would not have been
surprised if the Rioguayan forts and ships had done so. As he passed
the shell-shattered warships lying at anchor off the town, their
crews regarded the British boat with unfeigned interest, but without
any demonstration of anger. The wharves, too, were crowded with
spectators, civilians, seamen, and soldiers mingling
indiscriminately.

It was a risky business. At any moment an exasperated Rioguayan
might "let rip" with rifle or revolver, since there were no signs of
anyone in authority to hold the throng in check. Yet unhesitatingly
the unarmed picket-boat held on her course until at length she ran
alongside the broad stone steps facing the Rioguayan Port Admiral's
residence.

"Hey, laddie!" exclaimed a voice that sounded strangely familiar.

"Hello, Mackenzie!" replied Peter. "Didn't expect to see you in this
galley."

"I hardly did myself," admitted Mackenzie. "I've only been released
from prison this morning. They nabbed me when you cleared out. Our
mutual friend Don Ramon wasn't particularly gentlemanly about it.
Snarled like a dog. He was a bit hipped because you took French
leave. But I hardly expected to see you here again and in that rig.
So you got away all right? I had no means of finding out. And how is
Mr. Strong?"

"Steady, Mac," protested Peter laughingly. "It's a long yarn and can
wait. I've got to interview the port officials. We're going to put
it about them this time."

"Never doubted but what we would," rejoined the Scot, "I gathered
that Rioguay is feeling a bit sorry for itself. For one thing, my
release. They wouldn't have been so courteous if things had been
going their way. I'll wait on board your wee boat if you have no
objection, and perhaps you will give me a passage?"

"Do so," agreed Peter. "I hope I shan't be very long."

All this while, a party of Rioguayan officers had been kept waiting.
The lieutenant was in no hurry. He meant to let them cool their
heels.

Then, with a great amount of saluting and heel clicking, the
Rioguayan officers introduced themselves and offered to escort the
envoy to the Admiralty buildings. There was no hauteur in their
demeanour. They seemed genuinely anxious as to what was going to
happen and were almost clamouring to pay attention to the
representative of the British admiral.

In one of the rooms of the Admiralty House, Peter was introduced to
the Port Admiral and Governor of San Antonio. With them were
numerous officials--military, naval, and civilian.

Declining the offer of a glass of wine, Peter delivered his
dispatch. Keenly observing the faces of the Rioguayan officials as
one of the number translated the terms of the ultimatum, Corbold
knew that there would be no bombardment. In fact, the mildness of
the terms was a complete surprise. They expected nothing less than a
demand for the surrender of the principal officers of the port and
the instant payment of a vast sum of money to save the town from
destruction.

Then they explained the situation to the British envoy. As far as
San Antonio was concerned, the terms were accepted, and probably the
rest of the Republic of Rioguay would surrender on the same
conditions. For, unknown to the British admiral, a revolution had
broken out. President Jaime Samuda had been shot during the fighting
in the streets of the capital, Don Ramon Diaz and Don José Cordova,
his principal lieutenants, were in the hands of the insurgents, and
the last of the troops fighting for President Samuda had laid down
their arms.

Eight bells, noon, was being sounded off when Peter went on board
the _Royal Oak_ bearing a written acceptance of the British
admiral's ultimatum.

At 2 p.m. the fleet stood towards San Antonio. An hour later, the
Rioguayan colours on board the various warships were replaced by the
White Ensign. The forts were taken over by British marines and the
town patrolled by armed bluejackets.

That evening, Corbold and Cavendish, accompanied by Mackenzie, went
ashore. The shops were open, electric tramcars were running, and the
town was brilliantly lighted as usual. Everywhere the British seamen
and marines were received not as conquerors, but as deliverers from
the drastic rule of the dictator, President Samuda. Perhaps most of
the demonstrations of friendship were simulated, but the inhabitants
of San Antonio were certainly favourably impressed by the demeanour
of the victors and by their generous terms.

"By Jove! I had no idea that this was such an up-to-date place,"
remarked Cavendish. "Everyone seems chock-a-block with prosperity.
Why weren't the silly asses content? What possessed them to twist
the tail of the British lion?"

"They were made to," explained Mackenzie. "It was the late
President's idea."

"But surely they could have declined to risk their lives and
property?" rejoined Cavendish.

"There were inducements," continued Mackenzie. "Samuda gave them to
understand that Great Britain was a pigeon to be plucked. But apart
from that, the President's will was law. The Czar of all the Russias
in his day was not more autocratic. But they've learned a lesson."

"Are you remaining here?" asked Peter.

Mackenzie nodded.

"Yes," he replied slowly. "I am. I'm away home for a bit, though,
but I'll be back before very long. There's money to be made in
Rioguay after this trouble's over. And that mystery man--your Uncle
Brian--I suppose he'll be out this way again? Or perhaps he's made
enough out of his invention to retire into private life?"

"I don't think he'll come out to Rioguay," replied Peter. "He's had
enough, I fancy. As for making money out of the rays, that won't
worry him very much. From what I know of him, he'll have a tip-top
laboratory, wear any old clothes, and give away all his superfluous
cash."

Cavendish was unusually quiet that evening. The unrestrained gaiety
of the streets fascinated him. He could not understand why a people,
only just beaten in war, should take so light-heartedly to
amusements and rejoicing. The Rioguayans had discovered that there
was far more liberty under the British flag than there had been
under the late republic.

Suddenly there came the sound of men shouting in execration.

"What's that?" exclaimed Cavendish, his hand gripping the flap of
his revolver holster. "Some of our men being knocked about?"

"No fear," replied Mackenzie reassuringly. "The Dagoes wouldn't risk
doing that--even if they wanted to. Come on, let's see what the
row's about."

A crowd taking up the whole width of the spacious Calle Almeira
swept along, brandishing sticks and waving _sombreros_ and yelling
threats.

Standing on the steps of a café, the three chums could see a strong
body of civil police forcing their way through the press. In the
centre of the guards were three or four men looking horribly scared.
They were bleeding from wounds in the head, caused by missiles
hurled by the mob, who threatened to rush the none too determined
police.

"Good heavens!" exclaimed Peter. "There's Don Ramon Diaz."

It was. Ramon and the other principal officials of the late
Government had been brought in from the capital to be tried at San
Antonio. Even if they had a fair trial, which was doubtful, they
were practically certain to be condemned and shot. That was one of
the penalties of holding office in an unstable South American
republic--autocratic power one day, degradation and a firing party
the next. In the present case, it looked doubtful whether the
prisoners could be taken through the mob, some of whom had just
thrown noosed ropes over the electric lamp standards in the Plaza.

Gone was Ramon's sickly smile. It was the first time Peter had seen
him without that sneering, fatuous grin. He was trembling violently
and clinging desperately to the civil guard on his left.

"Poor blighter!" ejaculated Peter.

He was almost on the point of forcing his way through the mob to
attempt to save Ramon from lynch law. But moderate counsel
prevailed. He realized that in their present burst of frenzy, the
crowd might murder him. He was willing to risk that possibility, but
the result would destroy the amicable relations existing between the
inhabitants of San Antonio and the British seamen and marines. The
bloodshed that would ensue would be enormous, and perhaps the
Rioguayans would make a desperate and prolonged resistance.

Yet, somehow, Peter couldn't stand by and watch his enemy being done
to death.

Mackenzie was watching him covertly.

"Keep cool, laddie," he exclaimed. "There's an armed party coming
up."

A British naval patrol and a picquet of marines, wearing shrapnel
helmets, doubled up the street. A sharp word of command and the
armed men formed two deep right across the Calle Almeira, motionless
as statues.

"Order arms... fix bayonets!"

The click of steel and the clatter of rifle butts on the asphalt
acted like a cold douche upon the hot-headed citizens of San
Antonio. The forefront of the crowd retreated. Those in the rear,
unable to see what was going on, pressed forward. Yet a strange
silence fell upon the crowd.

The civil police, seizing their opportunity, hurried their prisoners
forward right up to the steel-tipped line of British bluejackets and
marines.

The officer in charge of the armed party was in a bit of a dilemma.
Unable to understand a word, he tried to silence the now vociferous
clamour of both prisoners and civil guards. He couldn't grasp the
situation, being under the impression that the affair was an
anti-British demonstration, while Don Ramon was in such a state of
collapse that his fluent command of English failed him utterly.

Peter and Cavendish, followed by Mackenzie, went up to the officer,
who happened to know the two former. Briefly Corbold explained the
situation.

"Well, what can I do?" asked the officer in charge of the party.
"These fellows aren't our prisoners. I can't take them away from the
civil authority."

Peter turned to the non-commissioned officer of the Rioguayan
police. The man stated that his orders were to take the prisoners to
the town gaol for the night. They would be tried and shot before
noon to-morrow, he added inconsequently.

"It's murder," declared Peter, conferring with the lieutenant of the
landing-party. "Look here, can you detail half a dozen men? I'll
take all responsibility and get the prisoners on board. After all's
said and done, they aren't criminals, merely political prisoners."

"Get on with it then," was the reply, "and jolly good luck. Only,
remember, I can't make these _opera bouffe_ policemen give up their
prisoners."

"I'll try, anyway," rejoined Peter.

Producing a buff-coloured paper with the Admiralty crest, Peter held
it in front of the Rioguayan _caporal_.

"Here is your new President's authority that all political suspects
under arrest are to be placed in British custody," he said brazenly.

The Rioguayan couldn't read. If he did and was able to understand
English, he would have seen that the document was a receipted mess
account. But it served its purpose.

"Sí, señor capitan," he replied, with a salute.

Ten minutes later, Don Ramon and his companions in misfortune were
seated in the stern-sheets of the _Rebound's_ picket-boat. He was
only too glad to enjoy the security afforded by the British navy
that he had oft-times derided.

Standing beside the midshipman at the wheel of the picket-boat was
Peter Corbold, ruminating with satisfaction upon the results of his
jaunt ashore.

As the cool air of the river fanned his face, he rubbed his cheek
vigorously.

"Wish the greasy blighter hadn't kissed me," he soliloquized, as he
gave a backward glance at the smug features of Don Ramon Diaz.




CHAPTER XXXII

The Fence Impregnable


During the next fortnight, events moved rapidly.

The new Government of Rioguay expressed its willingness to submit at
discretion to the British arms and craved the clemency of the
victors.

The terms were similar to those offered to San Antonio. All
fortified posts in the republic were to be dismantled, together with
armed ships-of-war and those of the flying-boats that had previously
escaped capture. An indemnity of £6,000,000, payable either in
negotiable bonds or in natural products of the republic, was
demanded, to be delivered in instalments extending over five years.
Until the indemnity was paid, a naval force was to remain at San
Antonio, its upkeep being guaranteed by the Rioguayan Government.

Almost at the same time that the treaty was signed, Great Britain
was able to mediate between the Associated Republic and the Empire
of Hondo. It was a ticklish business--calming down the fierce little
Asiatics without ruffling their _amour-propre_. They had beaten the
Associated Republic. The latter's navy was practically wiped out,
and the teeming millions of the Union were absolutely helpless. They
could raise a huge army, but to what purpose? Possessing sea-power,
Hondo, separated from her foe by the width of the Pacific, could and
did defy the armed might of her antagonist.

Vainly the Associated Republic proposed arbitration, but arbitration
is no good when an enemy is hammering, and hammering very forcibly,
at one's gate. And the Asiatics still remembered with bitterness
that the fruits of victory in times past had been taken from them by
certain European Powers whom they could now ignore with impunity.

Even had she wished, Great Britain could not have intervened with
armed force against Hondo on behalf of the Associated Republic. For
one thing, she had not a sufficient fleet to operate with any
likelihood of success in the distant Pacific. For another, Great
Britain had no desire to make war, either on Hondo or any other
nation, without good and just cause; and in the present instance
there was none.

Now that the war clouds had dispersed, Lieutenant Peter Corbold
began to ponder over his position. Taken back into the Royal Navy
owing to the Rioguayan war, he was now faced with the possibility of
having to "go on the beach" once more. It was not for pecuniary
reasons that the prospect worried him. Apart from his share in the
award by the Government for the "Strong anti-aircraft ray
apparatus", he knew that, if necessity arose, he could exploit the
Rioguayan diamond mine that Uncle Brian and he had discovered.

He was a sailor by inclination and instinct. The call of the Five
Oceans was irresistible. The sea with its changing moods was an
attraction that would never pall. And under the White Ensign, a life
afloat was at its very best. It was bad enough, Peter reflected, to
have been chucked out of the navy once. To have to repeat the
experience was almost unbearable.

Following the signing of peace between Great Britain and Rioguay,
the _Rebound_, _Repulse_, and _Retrench_, together with a number of
light cruisers and destroyers, were ordered home. The _Royal Oak_
was to remain for the present as Flagship to the South American
squadron with its base at San Antonio.

On the afternoon prior to the day fixed for the departure of the
homeward-bound warships, Peter was again ordered by signal to report
on board the _Royal Oak_.

"That means a telling off," he remarked to Cavendish. "I'm going to
get it hot over that Don Ramon business."

"'Fraid so," agreed Cavendish. "To tell the truth, old thing, I
wonder you weren't on the carpet long before this. Don't suppose I
can do much, but if you want me to back you up, I'm only too
willing."

Peter shook his head.

"Best keep out of it," he replied. "The Admiral can't do much,
considering I'm due to get slung out any old way."

But Peter Corbold was woefully adrift. The Admiral received him
quite cordially.

"My flag-lieutenant has received his promotion," he announced. "I'm
looking out for someone I can recommend for the billet, someone with
a good knowledge of the Rioguayan language. You, I think, Mr.
Corbold, will suit me."

"But I'm holding a temporary commission, sir," explained Peter.

"Rubbish!" declared the Admiral breezily. "There'll be no officer
sacked on reduction. You can take my word for that. The Admiralty
will want every trained officer they can lay their hands on with
this expansion of the navy stunt coming on. Now, then, what do you
say? Shall I send your name forward for appointment? Matter of form
only, of course."

"Thanks awfully, sir," mumbled Peter. He was too taken aback to
answer coherently. Usually cool and self-possessed, his sudden
stroke of good luck had metaphorically taken the wind out of his
sails.

"Very good, then," continued the Admiral. "We'll leave it at that
for the present. Maynebrace, my flag-lieutenant, won't be turning
over for a bit, so carry on on board the _Rebound_. When you get
home, take a month's leave. The _Stylex_ is ordered to this station
on the 25th of next month: you'd better come out in her.... Oh, by
the by, you brought off some refugees, I understand?"

"Yes, sir," admitted Peter.

"Glad you did," resumed the Commander-in-Chief. "The President wrote
me requesting that I should give them up. I told him pretty plainly
that it's not wise for the under-dog to kick, and that the refugees
were political prisoners who had found a shelter under the British
flag. The President can whistle for them. They're on their way to
Jamaica by now. All right, Mr. Corbold, carry on."

Peter "carried on". With a light heart and feeling that he was
treading on air (in his joy he very nearly did as he went over the
side), he returned on board the _Rebound_, was told that he was a
lucky dog, and on the strength of it had to stand champagne all
round the ward-room.

At nine next morning, the three battleships, with the signal
requesting permission to proceed, shortened in their cables. The
answering flags fluttered from the yard-arm of the _Royal Oak_.

With bands playing and men lining the sides, the battle-scarred
ships steamed slowly past the Flagship. Then, to the strain of
ringing cheers, the _Rebound_ and her consorts stood down the river,
on their homeward voyage across the Atlantic.

Ten days later, the _Rebound_, her gaping wounds temporarily
patched, steamed between the Round Tower and Blockhouse Fort,
guarding the entrance to Portsmouth Harbour. Gosport Beach,
Portsmouth Point, and Portsea Hard were black with people, who
cheered to the echo the home-coming ship that had won credit and
renown in the battle with the Rioguayan navy.

Then, with a powerful tug straining at her bow hawsers and another
following discreetly astern, the _Rebound_ glided slowly past the
South Railway Jetty, and "opened out" the tapering masts of the
veteran _Victory_.

Peter remembered the last occasion when he entered Portsmouth
Harbour, and the comparison was a pleasant one. Then he was, as he
imagined, going on the beach once and for all. Now he was safely
re-embarked upon a career after his own heart. Then the huge slipway
was bare. Now it was taken up with the keel-plates of a mammoth
battleship--the first of Britain's new navy. The dockyard was
teeming with life and activity. The ceaseless rattle of pneumatic
tools once more filled the air. The huge electric cranes were again
endowed with movement. Thousands of busy workmen swarmed everywhere.

Trade was already "following the Flag", as it had done in times
past. Mercantile shipping was reviving steadily, without the
deplorable prospect of a "boom" and its disastrous consequences.
Iron and steel workers were getting into their stride; the coal
industry was looking up. There was every indication of an era of
peace and prosperity.

And the reason was not far to seek. Britain had at last a definite
policy. No longer was she content to "toe the line" at the behest of
a party of international politicians assembled at Washington. She
was determined to regain her rightful position as Mistress of the
Seas. Without acting harshly towards her weaker neighbours, anxious
to keep peace on the principle of the "strong man armed", Britain
was much in the position of a big and tolerant brother keeping his
brothers and sisters in order.

As soon as the _Rebound_ paid off, Peter Corbold journeyed up to
town after a hurried but comprehensive visit to a Portsmouth firm of
naval outfitters. At the Admiralty he obtained official confirmation
of his appointment as Flag-lieutenant, and also obtained the
information that Sir Brian Strong (with K.C.B. and a dozen other
titles tacked on to his name), was living in retirement near
Bournemouth.

That same evening, Peter went down to his uncle's house, a small,
unassuming villa overlooking Poole Harbour. Although the hour was
late, he found Uncle Brian in overalls, working in a laboratory that
for area completely eclipsed the dwelling-house.

"You're wrong in your surmise, Peter," observed Sir Brian, during
the course of conversation. "I'm paying a flying visit to Rioguay.
I'll probably be out there before you. Yes, it's concerning the
diamond valley. I've obtained a concession from the new President,
and I've formed a Limited Company. You're one of the principal
shareholders, Peter--but we'll go into that matter presently. So I'm
just off to introduce the Works Manager to the place, although in
point of fact I'm rather keen to see the scene of our exploit
again."

Peter nodded.

"Wish you luck, Uncle," he said, "but thank goodness I'm not flying.
Had quite enough of that; blue water's much safer. But it was a
great stroke of yours--the rays invention."

"It was," agreed Sir Brian gravely. "But come this way."

He took his nephew to a corner of the laboratory where stood a
simple yet ingenious device.

"That was my emergency gadget," he announced, after explaining the
mechanism.

Peter looked at it long and anxiously. Then he turned to his uncle.

"Better sling it in the ditch before there's any harm done," he said
seriously.

Sir Brian chuckled.

"That's exactly what I mean to do," he replied. "Give me a hand with
the thing."

Together they carried the latest creation of Sir Brian's brain out
of the laboratory down the sloping lawn to a small pier.

In the bright moonlight, Peter saw a small dinghy made fast to the
steps. Into the stern-sheet of the boat the gadget was placed. Uncle
Brian sat aft, while Peter cast off and took the oars.

It was now slack tide and first high water.

With steady stroke, Peter urged the dinghy along, while Sir Brian
steered for the High Light at Sandbanks.

"This will do," he observed, when the white section changed to red.
"Right in the middle of the channel. It's a good fifty feet down.
Steady, Peter, mind the gunwale; it was varnished only yesterday....
Let go!"

With a sullen splash, the "box of tricks" disappeared from sight.
Sir Brian sat gazing at the ever-increasing circles in the moonlit
water.

He sat up with the air of a man who has taken a critical step and is
well satisfied with the result. Then, in a barely audible voice, he
quoted:

  "Let us be back'd with God, and with the seas
  Which He hath given for fence impregnable,
  And with their helps only defend ourselves;
  In them and in ourselves our safety lies."




PRINTED AND BOUND IN GREAT BRITAIN _By Blackie & Son, Limited,
Glasgow_




  [Transcriber's Notes:

    This book contains a number of misprints.
    The following misprints have been corrected:

      [find out how Don Jose] ->
         [find out how Don José]

      ["By jove!" he almost shouted] ->
         ["By Jove!" he almost shouted]
      (Several other instances of "jove" have been
      corrected to "Jove" but are not further mentioned here)

      [Senor Jaurez grinned] ->
         [Señor Jaurez grinned]

      [shooting trip up the Rioguaya.] ->
         [shooting trip up the Rio Guaya.]
      (There is a difference between the country-name
      and its river)

      ['Spose it's all right,] ->
         [S'pose it's all right,]

      ['spose the Tower of Babel] ->
         [s'pose the Tower of Babel]

      [subsiduary] ->
         [subsidiary]

      [there were compensatetions.] ->
         [there were compensations.]

      [knifelike bows] ->
         [knife-like bows]

      [antiaircraft gun, they] ->
         [anti-aircraft gun, they]

      [indispensibility] ->
         [indispensability]

      [the wreck of the foretop] ->
         [the wreck of the fore-top]

      [separating the wardroom] ->
         [separating the ward-room]

    The word [wolfhound] is also found spelled as [wolf-hound].
    Both versions are found multiple times. No correction was made.

    A few other cases of punctuation errors were corrected, but are
    not mentioned here.

    Unfortunately one illustration is missing. It is marked in the
    illustrations-list and at the position where it should be, with
    the text: [(missing from book)].

  ]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Clipped Wings, by Percy F. Westerman

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CLIPPED WINGS ***

***** This file should be named 60311-8.txt or 60311-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/0/3/1/60311/

Produced by R.G.P.M. van Giesen
Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
